Faculty Name: bio
Metadata:
Paperid: 8dc1a1a2ca79440911bbf35f77e1d9e6ee5db257
Title: Assessment of Meningeal Lymphatics in the Parasagittal Dural Space: A Prospective Feasibility Study Using Dynamic Contrast-Enhanced Magnetic Resonance Imaging
Year: 2023
Abstract: Objective Meningeal lymphatic vessels are predominantly located in the parasagittal dural space (PSD); these vessels drain interstitial fluids out of the brain and contribute to the glymphatic system. We aimed to investigate the ability of dynamic contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging (DCE-MRI) in assessing the dynamic changes in the meningeal lymphatic vessels in PSD. Materials and Methods Eighteen participants (26–71 years; male:female, 10:8), without neurological or psychiatric diseases, were prospectively enrolled and underwent DCE-MRI. Three regions of interests (ROIs) were placed on the PSD, superior sagittal sinus (SSS), and cortical vein. Early and delayed enhancement patterns and six kinetic curve-derived parameters were obtained and compared between the three ROIs. Moreover, the participants were grouped into the young (< 65 years; n = 9) or older (≥ 65 years; n = 9) groups. Enhancement patterns and kinetic curve-derived parameters in the PSD were compared between the two groups. Results The PSD showed different enhancement patterns than the SSS and cortical veins (P < 0.001 and P < 0.001, respectively) in the early and delayed phases. The PSD showed slow early enhancement and a delayed wash-out pattern. The six kinetic curve-derived parameters of PSD was significantly different than that of the SSS and cortical vein. The PSD wash-out rate of older participants was significantly lower (median, 0.09; interquartile range [IQR], 0.01–0.15) than that of younger participants (median, 0.32; IQR, 0.07–0.45) (P = 0.040). Conclusion This study shows that the dynamic changes of meningeal lymphatic vessels in PSD can be assessed with DCE-MRI, and the results are different from those of the venous structures. Our finding that delayed wash-out was more pronounced in the PSD of older participants suggests that aging may disturb the meningeal lymphatic drainage.
Authors: B. Joo, Mina Park, S. Ahn, Sang Hyun Suh
Venue: Korean Journal of Radiology
Tldr: {'model': 'tldr@v2.0.0', 'text': 'This study shows that the dynamic changes of meningeal lymphatic vessels in PSD can be assessed with DCE-MRI, and the results are different from those of the venous structures.'}
