Faculty Name: fernando diaz
Metadata:
Paperid: a76e7e394112a26116446a2920467a2702de5f56
Title: Pre-vaccination CD56 dimCD16 +NK cell abundance and T h1/T h17 ratio predict responsiveness to conjugated pneumococcal vaccine in older adults
Year: 2023
Abstract: 
 Older adults are at high risk of morbidity and mortality from Streptococcus pneumoniae (pneumococcus) infections. There are two available vaccines for pneumococcus: T-cell-independent capsular polysaccharide Pneumovax and T-cell-dependent conjugated Prevnar. However, how older adults respond to these vaccines at the cellular level and whether there are baseline predictors for responsiveness, is not known. To address this, we recruited older adults (60+ yrs), who are vaccinated with Prevnar (n=19) or Pneumovax (n=20). Vaccine responsiveness was quantified using opsonophagocytic assays, which revealed that both vaccines induce strong responses. Interestingly, sex was associated with Prevnar responses, where women mounted stronger responses than men. Pre-vaccination flow cytometry data showed that Th1 cells positively, Th17 cells negatively correlated with Prevnar responses. Furthermore, bulk RNA-seq data from PBMCs showed that baseline expression levels of cytotoxic genes (NCAM1, GNLY, PRF1) are negatively associated with Prevnar responses. scRNA-seq data from top and bottom responders showed that this cytotoxicity signature stems from CD56 dimCD16 +NK cells, where having more of these cells are detrimental to responses. Interestingly, women had significantly higher Th1, lower Th17 and lower CD16+ NK cells compared to men, which explains their stronger Prevnar responses. This is the first study to uncover older adults’ responses to two pneumococcal vaccines; we uncovered an activated immune phenotype of Th and NK cell subsets that impedes responses to Prevnar. Interestingly, this phenotype only affected adjuvanted vaccine responses, providing an opportunity for precision vaccinology for pneumococcus disease.
 Supported by grants from National Institute of Health (R35 GM124922, R01 AG052608) and JAX cancer center (JAX-CC).
Authors: S. Ravichandran, F. E. Díaz, Onur E Karakaslar, R. Marches, Robert J. Rossi, M. Nahm, D. Chaussabel, G. Kuchel, J. Banchereau, D. Ucar
Venue: Journal of Immunology
Tldr: {'model': 'tldr@v2.0.0', 'text': 'This is the first study to uncover older adults’ responses to two pneumococcal vaccines; an activated immune phenotype of Th and NK cell subsets that impedes responses to Prevnar is uncovered.'}
