Faculty Name: lu jiang
Metadata:
Paperid: e28b314bed6b71eb8f112b866ac77dbcb182bf0b
Title: BAC Transgenic Expression of Human TREM2-R47H Remodels Amyloid Plaques but Unable to Reprogram Plaque-associated Microglial Reactivity in 5xFAD Mice
Year: 2023
Abstract: Background Genetic study of late-onset Alzheimer’s disease (AD) reveals that a rare Arginine-to-Histamine mutation at amino acid residue 47 (R47H) in Triggering Receptor Expressed on Myeloid Cells 2 (TREM2) results in increased disease risk. TREM2 plays critical roles in regulating microglial response to amyloid plaques in AD, leading to their clustering and activation surrounding the plaques. We previously showed that increasing human TREM2 gene dosage exerts neuroprotective effects against AD-related deficits in amyloid depositing mouse models of AD. However, the in vivo effects of the R47H mutation on human TREM2-mediated microglial reprogramming and neuroprotection remains poorly understood. Method Here we created a BAC transgenic mouse model expressing human TREM2 with the R47H mutation in its cognate genomic context (BAC-TREM2-R47H). Importantly, the BAC used in this study was engineered to delete critical exons of other TREM-like genes on the BAC to prevent confounding effects of overexpressing multiple TREM-like genes. We crossed BAC-TREM2- R47H mice with 5xFAD [1], an amyloid depositing mouse model of AD, to evaluate amyloid pathologies and microglial phenotypes, transcriptomics and in situ expression of key TREM2-dosage dependent genes. We also compared the key findings in 5xFAD/BAC-TREM2-R47H to those observed in 5xFAD/BAC-TREM2 mice. Result Both BAC-TREM2 and BAC-TREM2-R47H showed proper expression of three splicing isoforms of TREM2 that are normally found in human. In 5xFAD background, elevated TREM2-R47H gene dosages significantly reduced the plaque burden, especially the filamentous type. The results were consistent with enhanced phagocytosis and altered NLRP3 inflammasome activation in BAC- TREM2-R47H microglia in vitro. However, unlike TREM2 overexpression, elevated TREM2- R47H in 5xFAD failed to ameliorate cognitive and transcriptomic deficits. In situ analysis of key TREM2-dosage dependent genes and microglial morphology uncovered that TREM2-R47H showed a loss-of-function phenotype in reprogramming of plaque-associated microglial reactivity and gene expression in 5xFAD. Conclusion Our study demonstrated that the AD-risk variant has a previously unknown, mixture of partial and full loss of TREM2 functions in modulating microglial response in AD mouse brains. Together, our new BAC-TREM2-R47H model and prior BAC-TREM2 mice are invaluable resource to facilitate the therapeutic discovery that target human TREM2 and its R47H variant to ameliorate AD and other neurodegenerative disorders.
Authors: C.Y. Daniel Lee, Amberlene J De La Rocha, Kellie Inouye, P. Langfelder, Anthony Daggett, X. Gu, Lu-Lin Jiang, Zoe Pamonag, Raymond G. Vaca, Jeffrey B. Richman, R. Kawaguchi, F. Gao, Huaxi Xu, X. W. Yang
Venue: bioRxiv
Tldr: {'model': 'tldr@v2.0.0', 'text': 'This study created a BAC transgenic mouse model expressing human TREM2 with the R47H mutation in its cognate genomic context and demonstrated that the AD-risk variant has a previously unknown, mixture of partial and full loss of TREM1 functions in modulating microglial response in AD mouse brains.'}
