Faculty Name: lu jiang
Metadata:
Paperid: 82c5b6d1191c273186094663a772bc93744cc559
Title: “Easier or Harder, Depending on Who the Hearing Person Is”: Codesigning Videoconferencing Tools for Small Groups with Mixed Hearing Status
Year: 2023
Abstract: With improvements in automated speech recognition and increased use of videoconferencing, real-time captioning has changed significantly. This shift toward broadly available but less accurate captioning invites exploration of the role hearing conversation partners play in shaping the accessibility of a conversation to d/Deaf and hard of hearing (DHH) captioning users. While recent work has explored DHH individuals’ videoconferencing experiences with captioning, we focus on established groups’ current practices and priorities for future tools to support more accessible online conversations. Our study consists of three codesign sessions, conducted with four groups (17 participants total, 10 DHH, 7 hearing). We found that established groups crafted social accessibility norms that met their relational contexts. We also identify promising directions for future captioning design, including the need to standardize speaker identification and customization, opportunities to provide behavioral feedback during a conversation, and ways that videoconferencing platforms could enable groups to set and share norms.
Authors: Emma J. McDonnell, Soo Hyun Moon, Lucy Jiang, Steven M. Goodman, R. Kushalnagar, Jon E. Froehlich, Leah Findlater
Venue: International Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems
Tldr: {'model': 'tldr@v2.0.0', 'text': 'It is found that established groups crafted social accessibility norms that met their relational contexts, and promising directions for future captioning design are identified, including the need to standardize speaker identification and customization, opportunities to provide behavioral feedback during a conversation, and ways that videoconferencing platforms could enable groups to set and share norms.'}
