Faculty Name: mona diab
Metadata:
Paperid: 81513416b80f753166e224b34b599e9385980a97
Title: Emerging Therapeutic Approaches to Target the Dark Side of Senescent Cells: New Hopes to Treat Aging as a Disease and to Delay Age-Related Pathologies
Year: 2023
Abstract: Life expectancy has drastically increased over the last few decades worldwide, with important social and medical burdens and costs. To stay healthy longer and to avoid chronic disease have become essential issues. Organismal aging is a complex process that involves progressive destruction of tissue functionality and loss of regenerative capacity. One of the most important aging hallmarks is cellular senescence, which is a stable state of cell cycle arrest that occurs in response to cumulated cell stresses and damages. Cellular senescence is a physiological mechanism that has both beneficial and detrimental consequences. Senescence limits tumorigenesis, lifelong tissue damage, and is involved in different biological processes, such as morphogenesis, regeneration, and wound healing. However, in the elderly, senescent cells increasingly accumulate in several organs and secrete a combination of senescence associated factors, contributing to the development of various age-related diseases, including cancer. Several studies have revealed major molecular pathways controlling the senescent phenotype, as well as the ones regulating its interactions with the immune system. Attenuating the senescence-associated secretory phenotype (SASP) or eliminating senescent cells have emerged as attractive strategies aiming to reverse or delay the onset of aging diseases. Here, we review current senotherapies designed to suppress the deleterious effect of SASP by senomorphics or to selectively kill senescent cells by “senolytics” or by immune system-based approaches. These recent investigations are promising as radical new controls of aging pathologies and associated multimorbidities.
Authors: Roula Khalil, M. Diab‐Assaf, J. Lemaître
Venue: Cells
Tldr: {'model': 'tldr@v2.0.0', 'text': 'Current senotherapies designed to suppress the deleterious effect of SASP by senomorphics or to selectively kill senescent cells by “senolytics” or by immune system-based approaches are reviewed.'}
