Faculty Name: tom mitchell
Metadata:
Paperid: 49ead7feab9902199fb0c7c6ae3acd7ddfe3c6a7
Title: Teaching open and reproducible scholarship: a critical review of the evidence base for current pedagogical methods and their outcomes
Year: 2023
Abstract: In recent years, the scientific community has called for improvements in the credibility, robustness and reproducibility of research, characterized by increased interest and promotion of open and transparent research practices. While progress has been positive, there is a lack of consideration about how this approach can be embedded into undergraduate and postgraduate research training. Specifically, a critical overview of the literature which investigates how integrating open and reproducible science may influence student outcomes is needed. In this paper, we provide the first critical review of literature surrounding the integration of open and reproducible scholarship into teaching and learning and its associated outcomes in students. Our review highlighted how embedding open and reproducible scholarship appears to be associated with (i) students' scientific literacies (i.e. students’ understanding of open research, consumption of science and the development of transferable skills); (ii) student engagement (i.e. motivation and engagement with learning, collaboration and engagement in open research) and (iii) students' attitudes towards science (i.e. trust in science and confidence in research findings). However, our review also identified a need for more robust and rigorous methods within pedagogical research, including more interventional and experimental evaluations of teaching practice. We discuss implications for teaching and learning scholarship.
Authors: Madeleine Pownall, F. Azevedo, L. M. König, Hannah R. Slack, T. Evans, Zoe M. Flack, Sandra Grinschgl, M. Elsherif, K. Gilligan-Lee, Catia M. F. de Oliveira, B. Gjoneska, T. Kalandadze, K. Button, Sarah Ashcroft-Jones, Janet L. Terry, Nihan Albayrak‐Aydemir, F. Děchtěrenko, Shilaan Alzahawi, Bradley J. Baker, M. Pittelkow, Lydia Riedl, Kathleen Schmidt, C. Pennington, John J. Shaw, Timo Lüke, Matthew C. Makel, Helena Hartmann, Mirela Zaneva, Daniel Walker, S. Verheyen, Daniel Cox, Jennifer Mattschey, Tom Gallagher-Mitchell, P. Branney, Y. Weisberg, Kamil Izydorczak, Ali H. Al‐Hoorie, Ann-Marie Creaven, S. Stewart, Kai Krautter, K. Matvienko-Sikar, S. Westwood, Patrícia Arriaga, Meng Liu, Myriam A. Baum, Tobias Wingen, R. M. Ross, Aoife O'Mahony, Agata Bochynska, M. Jamieson, Myrthe Vel Tromp, S. Yeung, Martin R. Vasilev, A. Gourdon-Kanhukamwe, L. Micheli, M. Konkol, David Moreau, James E. Bartlett, Kait Clark, G. Brekelmans, T. Gkinopoulos, S. Tyler, J. P. Röer, Zlatomira G. Ilchovska, C. Madan, Olly Robertson, Bethan J. Iley, Samuel Guay, Martina Sladekova, S. Sadhwani
Venue: Royal Society Open Science
Tldr: None
