Faculty Name: yang yiming
Metadata:
Paperid: 7e7ab2af26025d1aa2a6a90fab7713139a9327f7
Title: Inference of single cell profiles from histology stains with the Single-Cell omics from Histology Analysis Framework (SCHAF)
Year: 2023
Abstract: Tissue biology involves an intricate balance between cell-intrinsic processes and interactions between cells organized in specific spatial patterns, which can be respectively captured by single-cell profiling methods, such as single-cell RNA-seq (scRNA-seq), and histology imaging data, such as Hematoxylin-and-Eosin (H&E) stains. While single-cell profiles provide rich molecular information, they can be challenging to collect routinely and do not have spatial resolution. Conversely, histological H&E assays have been a cornerstone of tissue pathology for decades, but do not directly report on molecular details, although the observed structure they capture arises from molecules and cells. Here, we leverage adversarial machine learning to develop SCHAF (Single-Cell omics from Histology Analysis Framework), to generate a tissue sample’s spatially-resolved single-cell omics dataset from its H&E histology image. We demonstrate SCHAF on two types of human tumors—from lung and metastatic breast cancer—training with matched samples analyzed by both sc/snRNA-seq and by H&E staining. SCHAF generated appropriate single-cell profiles from histology images in test data, related them spatially, and compared well to ground-truth scRNA-Seq, expert pathologist annotations, or direct MERFISH measurements. SCHAF opens the way to next-generation H&E2.0 analyses and an integrated understanding of cell and tissue biology in health and disease.
Authors: Charles Comiter, E. D. Vaishnav, M. Ciampricotti, Bo Li, Yiming Yang, S. Rodig, M. Turner, Kathleen L. Pfaff, Judit Jané-Valbuena, M. Slyper, Julia Waldman, Sebastian Vigneau, Jingyi Wu, Timothy R. Blosser, Å. Segerstolpe, Daniel L. Abravanel, Nikil Wagle, X. Zhuang, C. Rudin, J. Klughammer, O. Rozenblatt-Rosen, Koseki J. Kobayash-Kirschvink, J. Shu, A. Regev
Venue: bioRxiv
Tldr: {'model': 'tldr@v2.0.0', 'text': 'Adversarial machine learning is used to develop SCHAF (Single-Cell omics from Histology Analysis Framework), to generate a tissue sample’s spatially-resolved single-cell omics dataset from its H&E histology image, which opens the way to next-generation H &E2.0 analyses and an integrated understanding of cell and tissue biology in health and disease.'}
