Faculty Name: yang yiming
Metadata:
Paperid: 24df244bf7a6e8c93c5f183d3f62d39c0f773c68
Title: SALMON: Self-Alignment with Principle-Following Reward Models
Year: 2023
Abstract: Supervised Fine-Tuning (SFT) on response demonstrations combined with Reinforcement Learning from Human Feedback (RLHF) constitutes a powerful paradigm for aligning LLM-based AI agents. However, a significant limitation of such an approach is its dependency on high-quality human annotations, making its application to intricate tasks challenging due to difficulties in obtaining consistent response demonstrations and in-distribution response preferences. This paper presents a novel approach, namely SALMON (Self-ALignMent with principle-fOllowiNg reward models), to align base language models with minimal human supervision, using only a small set of human-defined principles, yet achieving superior performance. Central to our approach is a principle-following reward model. Trained on synthetic preference data, this model can generate reward scores based on arbitrary human-defined principles. By merely adjusting these principles during the RL training phase, we gain full control over the preferences with the reward model, subsequently influencing the behavior of the RL-trained policies, and eliminating the reliance on the collection of online human preferences. Applying our method to the LLaMA-2-70b base language model, we developed an AI assistant named Dromedary-2. With only 6 exemplars for in-context learning and 31 human-defined principles, Dromedary-2 significantly surpasses the performance of several state-of-the-art AI systems, including LLaMA-2-Chat-70b, on various benchmark datasets. We have open-sourced the code and model weights to encourage further research into aligning LLM-based AI agents with enhanced supervision efficiency, improved controllability, and scalable oversight.
Authors: Zhiqing Sun, Yikang Shen, Hongxin Zhang, Qinhong Zhou, Zhenfang Chen, David D. Cox, Yiming Yang, Chuang Gan
Venue: arXiv.org
Tldr: {'model': 'tldr@v2.0.0', 'text': 'A novel approach, namely SALMON (Self-ALignMent with principle-fOllowiNg reward models), to align base language models with minimal human supervision, using only a small set of human-defined principles, yet achieving superior performance.'}
