Faculty Name: yang yiming
Metadata:
Paperid: cfc9f23631c9dcb0935af6cf43d23854959a35c8
Title: De novo assembling a high-quality genome sequence of Amur grape (Vitis amurensis Rupr.) gives insight into Vitis divergence and sex determination
Year: 2023
Abstract: To date, there is no high-quality sequence for genomes of the East Asian grape species, hindering biological and breeding research efforts to improve grape cultivars. This study presents a ∼522 Mb of the Vitis amurensis (Va) genome sequence containing 27,635 coding genes. Phylogenetic analysis indicated that V. riparia (Vr) may firstly split from the other two species, Va, V. Vinifera (Vv; Pinot Noir: PN40024 and Cabernet Sauvignon). Much divergent gene reservation among three grape duplicated gene sets suggests that the core eudicot common hexaploidy (ECH), 130 million years ago (Mya), has still played a non-negligible role in grape species divergence and biological innovation. Prominent accumulation of sequence variants might have improved cold resistance in Va, resulting in a more robust cold resistance gene regulatory network than those in Vv and Vr. In contrast, Va preserved much fewer NBS disease resistance genes than the other grapes. Notably, multi-omics analysis identified one trans-cinnamate 4-monooxygenase gene positively correlated to the resveratrol accumulated during Va berry development. A selective sweep analysis revealed a hypothetical Va sex-determination region (SDR). Besides, a PPR-containing protein-coding gene in the hypothetical SDR may be related with sex determination in Va. The content and arrangement order of genes in the putative SDR of female Va were similar to the SDR of female Vv. However, the putative SDR of female Va lost one Flavin-containing monooxygenases (FMO) and contained one extra uncharacterized protein-coding gene. These findings will improve the understanding of Vitis biology and contribute to the improvement of grape breeding.
Authors: Pengfei Wang, Fanbo Meng, Yiming Yang, Qian Mu, Tingting Ding, Huiping Liu, Fengxia Wang, Ao Li, Qingtian Zhang, Shutian Fan, Bo Li, Zhiyao Ma, Tianhao Zhang, Yongfeng Zhou, Hongjun Zhao, Xiyin Wang
Venue: bioRxiv
Tldr: {'model': 'tldr@v2.0.0', 'text': 'A selective sweep analysis revealed a hypothetical Va sex-determination region (SDR), and a PPR-containing protein-coding gene in the hypothetical SDR may be related with sex determination in Va, which will improve the understanding of Vitis biology and contribute to the improvement of grape breeding.'}
