Faculty Name: yang yiming
Metadata:
Paperid: ca5d6ee5ce52d039c109fe44b0c68b1fe1f0198a
Title: Claudin-10 in the Blood Brain Barrier Function of Cerebral Endothelial Cells and Transendothelial Invasion of Breast Cancer Cells
Year: 2023
Abstract: Background/Aim: Claudin-10 (CLDN10) is a membrane integral protein. It is one of the widely expressed tight junctional claudins with functions not well defined. In the present study, the expression profile and its role in cerebral endothelial cells and in the interaction between breast cancer and endothelial cells were investigated. Materials and Methods: CLDN10 expression was examined in a wide range of cell types. Brain endothelial cell models with or without CLDN10 expression were generated using the hCMEC/D3 cell line and used to test the barrier and permeability functions. Transendothelial drug delivery and invasion were also evaluated. Results: hCMEC/D3 cells express high levels of CLDN10, compared with peripheral endothelial cells, mesothelial cells, fibroblasts, and breast cancer cells, which were either negative or expressed low levels of CLDN10. Knockdown of CLDN10 in hCMEC/D3 cells resulted in impaired tight junctions as seen by reduced transendothelial electric resistance and paracellular permeability. It also accelerated invasion of breast cancer cells through the endothelial cell layer. CLDN10 knockdown in hCMEC/D3 cells led to an increase in transendothelial chemodrug delivery. Furthermore, the SRC kinase inhibitor (AZM475271) was able to decrease the impedance and increase the paracellular permeability in cerebral endothelial cells. Conclusion: Cerebral endothelial cells express high levels of CLDN10, a protein regulating barrier function and thereby drug permeability and cancer invasiveness in brain endothelial cells, suggesting that it is a novel therapeutic target for the treatment of brain metastasis-related diseases.
Authors: Tracy A. Martin, Xinguo Zhuang, Wenxiao Ji, Ziqian Fang, Yiming Yang, F. Ruge, Q. Dou, LI Xun, XU Bing, W. Jiang, T. Martin
Venue: Anticancer Research
Tldr: {'model': 'tldr@v2.0.0', 'text': 'Cerebral endothelial cells express high levels of CLDN10, a protein regulating barrier function and thereby drug permeability and cancer invasiveness in brain endothelial Cells, suggesting that it is a novel therapeutic target for the treatment of brain metastasis-related diseases.'}
