Faculty Name: alexander waibel
Metadata:
Paperid: f3e237e794bc4cd8df7f3e31d0caa2f7ee8cd06b
Title: Train Global, Tailor Local: Minimalist Multilingual Translation into Endangered Languages
Year: 2023
Abstract: In many humanitarian scenarios, translation into severely low resource languages often does not require a universal translation engine, but a dedicated text-specific translation engine. For example, healthcare records, hygienic procedures, government communication, emergency procedures and religious texts are all limited texts. While generic translation engines for all languages do not exist, translation of multilingually known limited texts into new, endangered languages may be possible and reduce human translation effort. We attempt to leverage translation resources from rich resource languages to efficiently produce best possible translation quality for well known texts, which is available in multiple languages, in a new, severely low resource language. We examine two approaches: 1.) best selection of seed sentences to jump start translations in a new language in view of best generalization to the remainder of a larger targeted text(s), and 2.) we adapt large general multilingual translation engines from many other languages to focus on a specific text in a new, unknown language. We find that adapting large pretrained multilingual models to the domain/text first and then to the severely low resource language works best. If we also select a best set of seed sentences, we can improve average chrF performance on new test languages from a baseline of 21.9 to 50.7, while reducing the number of seed sentences to only ∼1,000 in the new, unknown language.
Authors: Zhong Zhou, J. Niehues, A. Waibel
Venue: LORESMT
Tldr: {'model': 'tldr@v2.0.0', 'text': 'This work examines two approaches to best selection of seed sentences to jump start translations in a new language in view of best generalization to the remainder of a larger targeted text(s), and it finds that adapting large pretrained multilingual models to the domain/text first and then to the severely low resource language works best.'}
