Faculty Name: bio
Metadata:
Paperid: 6aeb44539d461b1ed9e9b23cb875d1b12eb44a3b
Title: Antifungal stewardship in practice: Insights from a prospective audit and feedback program
Year: 2023
Abstract: Abstract Objective: To identify characteristics of antifungal prospective audit and feedback (PAF) and to compare rates of PAF recommendation and acceptance between antifungal and antibiotic agents. Design: Retrospective cohort study of antifungal and antibiotic audits by a children’s hospital antimicrobial stewardship program (ASP) from November 1, 2020, to October 31, 2022. Methods: Antimicrobial audit data were retrieved from the ASP data warehouse. We characterized antifungal PAF using descriptive statistics. We then compared the overall rates of PAF recommendation and recommendation acceptance between antifungals and antibiotics. We also compared the differences in antifungal and antibiotic PAF recommendation and acceptance rates across various factors, including infectious problem, medical service, and recommendation type. Results: Of 10,402 antimicrobial audits identified during the study period, 8,599 (83%) were for antibiotics and 1,803 (17%) were for antifungals. The highest antifungal recommendation rates were for liposomal amphotericin B, antifungals used for sepsis or respiratory tract infection, and antifungals prescribed in the cardiovascular intensive care unit. The rate of PAF recommendation was higher for antibiotics than for antifungals (29% vs 21%; P < .001); however, the rates of recommendation acceptance were similar. Recommendations to discontinue or for medication monitoring were more common for antifungals. Conclusions: Our analysis of antifungal PAF identified key opportunities to improve antifungal use, including the optimized use of specific agents and targeted use by certain medical services. Moreover, antifungal PAF, despite identifying fewer recommendations compared to antibiotic PAF, were associated with similarly high rates of acceptance, highlighting a promising opportunity for antifungal stewardship.
Authors: L. Bio, Yingjie Weng, Hayden T. Schwenk
Venue: Infection control and hospital epidemiology
Tldr: {'model': 'tldr@v2.0.0', 'text': 'Antifungal PAF, despite identifying fewer recommendations compared to antibiotic PAF, were associated with similarly high rates of acceptance, highlighting a promising opportunity for antifungal stewardship.'}
