Faculty Name: eric xing
Metadata:
Paperid: 7124f495399759ce089e6637dc48e073e9d168aa
Title: 3D Semantic Segmentation in the Wild: Learning Generalized Models for Adverse-Condition Point Clouds
Year: 2023
Abstract: Robust point cloud parsing under all-weather conditions is crucial to level-5 autonomy in autonomous driving. However, how to learn a universal 3D semantic segmentation (3DSS) model is largely neglected as most existing benchmarks are dominated by point clouds captured under normal weather. We introduce SemanticSTF, an adverse-weather point cloud dataset that provides dense point-level annotations and allows to study 3DSS under various adverse weather conditions. We study all-weather 3DSS modeling under two setups: 1) domain adaptive 3DSS that adapts from normal-weather data to adverse-weather data; 2) domain generalizable 3DSS that learns all-weather 3DSS models from normal-weather data. Our studies reveal the challenge while existing 3DSS methods encounter adverse-weather data, showing the great value of SemanticSTF in steering the future endeavor along this very meaningful research direction. In addition, we design a domain randomization technique that alternatively randomizes the geometry styles of point clouds and aggregates their embeddings, ultimately leading to a generalizable model that can improve 3DSS under various adverse weather effectively. The SemanticSTF and related codes are available at https://github.com/xiaoaoran/SemanticSTF.
Authors: Aoran Xiao, Jiaxing Huang, Weihao Xuan, Ruijie Ren, Kangcheng Liu, Dayan Guan, A. E. Saddik, Shijian Lu, Eric P. Xing
Venue: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition
Tldr: {'model': 'tldr@v2.0.0', 'text': 'This work introduces SemanticSTF, an adverse-weather point cloud dataset that provides dense point-level annotations and allows to study 3DSS under various adverse weather conditions, and designs a domain randomization technique that alternatively randomizes the geometry styles of point clouds and aggregates their embeddings, ultimately leading to a generalizable model that can improve 3D semantic segmentation underVarious adverse weather effectively.'}
