Faculty Name: lei li
Metadata:
Paperid: dd3c82415e5704c60703e86a051ab3a003b0122b
Title: Intraoperative molecular imaging: 3rd biennial clinical trials update
Year: 2023
Abstract: Abstract. Significance This third biennial intraoperative molecular imaging (IMI) conference shows how optical contrast agents have been applied to develop clinically significant endpoints that improve precision cancer surgery. Aim National and international experts on IMI presented ongoing clinical trials in cancer surgery and preclinical work. Previously known dyes (with broader applications), new dyes, novel nonfluorescence-based imaging techniques, pediatric dyes, and normal tissue dyes were discussed. Approach Principal investigators presenting at the Perelman School of Medicine Abramson Cancer Center’s third clinical trials update on IMI were selected to discuss their clinical trials and endpoints. Results Dyes that are FDA-approved or currently under clinical investigation in phase 1, 2, and 3 trials were discussed. Sections on how to move benchwork research to the bedside were also included. There was also a dedicated section for pediatric dyes and nonfluorescence-based dyes that have been newly developed. Conclusions IMI is a valuable adjunct in precision cancer surgery and has broad applications in multiple subspecialties. It has been reliably used to alter the surgical course of patients and in clinical decision making. There remain gaps in the utilization of IMI in certain subspecialties and potential for developing newer and improved dyes and imaging techniques.
Authors: P. Bou-Samra, N. Muhammad, Austin Chang, Ritesh Karsalia, F. Azari, G. Kennedy, W. Stummer, J. Tanyi, Linda Martin, A. Vahrmeijer, Barbara Smith, E. Rosenthal, Patrick Wagner, David Rice, Amy Lee, Abdelhafeez H. Abdelhafeez, M. Malek, G. Kohanbash, Wilson Barry Edwards, E. Henderson, J. Skjøth-Rasmussen, Ryan Orosco, Summer L. Gibbs, R. Farnam, L. Shankar, B. Sumer, Anand T. N. Kumar, L. Marcu, Lei S Li, Victor Greuv, E. Delikatny, John Y. K. Lee, S. Singhal
Venue: Journal of Biomedical Optics
Tldr: {'model': 'tldr@v2.0.0', 'text': 'IMI has been reliably used to alter the surgical course of patients and in clinical decision making and remains a valuable adjunct in precision cancer surgery and has broad applications in multiple subspecialties.'}
