Faculty Name: lu jiang
Metadata:
Paperid: 05828439f8a928df3e6036c3be766b430935da6a
Title: Accuracy of narrow band imaging for detecting the malignant transformation of oral potentially malignant disorders: A systematic review and meta-analysis
Year: 2023
Abstract: Objective Oral potentially malignant disorders (OPMDs) are a spectrum of diseases that harbor the potential of malignant transformation and developing into oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC). Narrow band imaging (NBI) has been clinically utilized for the adjuvant diagnosis of OPMD and OSCC. This study aimed to comprehensively evaluate the diagnostic accuracy of NBI for malignant transformations of OPMD by applying the intraepithelial papillary capillary loop (IPCL) classification approach. Methods Studies reporting the diagnostic validity of NBI in the detection of OPMD/OSCC were selected. Four databases were searched and 11 articles were included in the meta-analysis. We performed four subgroup analyses by defining IPCL I/II as negative diagnostic results and no/mild dysplasia as negative pathological outcome. Pooled data were analyzed using random-effects models. Meta-regression analysis was performed to explore heterogeneity. Results After pooled analysis of the four subgroups, we found that subgroup 1, defining IPCL II and above as a clinically positive result, demonstrated the most optimal overall diagnostic accuracy for the malignant transformation of OPMDs, with a sensitivity and specificity of NBI of 0.87 (95% confidence interval (CI) [0.67, 0.96], p < 0.001) and 0.83 [95% CI (0.56, 0.95), p < 0.001], respectively; while the other 3 subgroups displayed relatively low sensitivity or specificity. Conclusions NBI is a promising and non-invasive adjunctive tool for identifying malignant transformations of OPMDs. The IPCL grading is currently a sound criterion for the clinical application of NBI. After excluding potentially false positive results, these oral lesions classified as IPCL II or above are suggested to undergo biopsy for early and accurate diagnosis as well as management.
Authors: You Zhang, Yuqi Wu, Dan Pan, Zhenyu Zhang, Lu Jiang, Xiaodong Feng, Yuchen Jiang, Xiaobo Luo, Qianming Chen
Venue: Frontiers in Surgery
Tldr: {'model': 'tldr@v2.0.0', 'text': 'NBI is a promising and non-invasive adjunctive tool for identifying malignant transformations of OPMDs and the IPCL grading is currently a sound criterion for the clinical application of NBI.'}
