Faculty Name: lu jiang
Metadata:
Paperid: 01796aa965bab046cd24077ad6cd0d5d4cd8e6c8
Title: Multi-Omics Unravels Metabolic Alterations in the Ileal Mucosa of Neonatal Piglets Receiving Total Parenteral Nutrition
Year: 2023
Abstract: Total parenteral nutrition (TPN) is life-saving therapy for the pediatric patients with intestinal failure (IF) who cannot tolerate enteral nutrition (EN). However, TPN-induced metabolic alterations are also a critical issue for the maintenance of intestinal homeostasis, and thus the global metabolomic signatures need to be addressed. In this study, ileal mucosal biopsies were collected from 12 neonatal Bama piglets receiving either EN or TPN for 14 days, and changes in the intestinal metabolism were examined by multi-omics (HM350 Metabolomics + Tandem Mass Tag (TMT)-based proteomics). As a result, a total of 240 compounds were identified by metabolomics, including 56 down-regulated and 9 up-regulated metabolites. Notably, tissue levels of fatty acyl-carnitines (decreased by 35–85%) and succinate (decreased by 89%) dramatically decreased in the TPN group, suggestive of disrupted processes of fatty acid oxidation (FAO) and the citrate cycle, respectively. Interestingly, however, no differences were found in the production of adenosine 5′-triphosphate (ATP) between groups, suggesting that these dysregulated metabolites may have mainly led to the loss of bioactive compounds rather than energy deficit. Additionally, 4813 proteins were identified by proteomics in total, including 179 down-regulated and 329 up-regulated proteins. The analysis of protein–protein interactions (PPI) indicated that most of the differentially expressed proteins were clustered into “lipid metabolism” and “innate immune responses”. In summary, this work provided new findings in TPN-induced intestinal metabolic alterations, which would be useful to the improvement of nutritional management for IF patients.
Authors: Jun-Kai Yan, Yuling Zhao, Luyang Jiang, Ying Wang, W. Cai
Venue: Metabolites
Tldr: {'model': 'tldr@v2.0.0', 'text': 'New findings in TPN-induced intestinal metabolic alterations are provided, which would be useful to the improvement of nutritional management for IF patients.'}
