Faculty Name: lu jiang
Metadata:
Paperid: ea492b5bcb8fc9dc09637f8e89829916093a2536
Title: Single-cell immune profiling reveals immune responses in oral lichen planus
Year: 2023
Abstract: Introduction Oral lichen planus (OLP) is a common chronic inflammatory disorder of the oral mucosa with an unclear etiology. Several types of immune cells are involved in the pathogenesis of OLP. Methods We used single-cell RNA sequencing and immune repertoire sequencing to characterize the mucosal immune microenvironment of OLP. The presence of tissue-resident memory CD8+ T cells are validated by multiplex immunofluorescence. Results We generated a transcriptome atlas from four OLP biopsy samples and their paired peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs), and compared them with two healthy tissues and three healthy PBMCs samples. Our analysis revealed activated tissue-resident memory CD8+ T cells in OLP tissues. T cell receptor repertoires displayed apperant clonal expansion and preferrential gene pairing in OLP patients. Additionally, obvious BCR clonal expansion was observed in OLP lesions. Plasmacytoid dendritic cells, a subtype that can promote dendritic cell maturation and enhance lymphocyte cytotoxicity, were identified in OLP. Conventional dendritic cells and macrophages are also found to exhibit pro-inflammatory activity in OLP. Cell-cell communication analysis reveals that fibroblasts might promote the recruitment and extravasation of immune cells into connective tissue. Discussion Our study provides insights into the immune ecosystem of OLP, serving as a valuable resource for precision diagnosis and therapy of OLP.
Authors: Qionghua Li, Fei Wang, Yujie Shi, L. Zhong, S. Duan, Wenjing Kuang, Na Liu, En-jie Luo, Yu Zhou, Lu Jiang, H. Dan, Xiaobo Luo, Dunfang Zhang, Qianming Chen, X. Zeng, Taiwen Li
Venue: Frontiers in Immunology
Tldr: {'model': 'tldr@v2.0.0', 'text': 'Insight is provided into the immune ecosystem of OLP that reveals that fibroblasts might promote the recruitment and extravasation of immune cells into connective tissue, serving as a valuable resource for precision diagnosis and therapy of O LP.'}
