Faculty Name: mona diab
Metadata:
Paperid: bcfbcbbe128ee74e39cb8698e5dfd6047b690487
Title: Crosstalk of Inflammatory Cytokines within the Breast Tumor Microenvironment
Year: 2023
Abstract: Several immune and immunocompetent cells, including dendritic cells, macrophages, adipocytes, natural killer cells, T cells, and B cells, are significantly correlated with the complex discipline of oncology. Cytotoxic innate and adaptive immune cells can block tumor proliferation, and others can prevent the immune system from rejecting malignant cells and provide a favorable environment for tumor progression. These cells communicate with the microenvironment through cytokines, a chemical messenger, in an endocrine, paracrine, or autocrine manner. These cytokines play an important role in health and disease, particularly in host immune responses to infection and inflammation. They include chemokines, interleukins (ILs), adipokines, interferons, colony-stimulating factors (CSFs), and tumor necrosis factor (TNF), which are produced by a wide range of cells, including immune cells, such as macrophages, B-cells, T-cells, and mast cells, as well as endothelial cells, fibroblasts, a variety of stromal cells, and some cancer cells. Cytokines play a crucial role in cancer and cancer-related inflammation, with direct and indirect effects on tumor antagonistic or tumor promoting functions. They have been extensively researched as immunostimulatory mediators to promote the generation, migration and recruitment of immune cells that contribute to an effective antitumor immune response or pro-tumor microenvironment. Thus, in many cancers such as breast cancer, cytokines including leptin, IL-1B, IL-6, IL-8, IL-23, IL-17, and IL-10 stimulate while others including IL-2, IL-12, and IFN-γ, inhibit cancer proliferation and/or invasion and enhance the body’s anti-tumor defense. Indeed, the multifactorial functions of cytokines in tumorigenesis will advance our understanding of cytokine crosstalk pathways in the tumor microenvironment, such as JAK/STAT, PI3K, AKT, Rac, MAPK, NF-κB, JunB, cFos, and mTOR, which are involved in angiogenesis, cancer proliferation and metastasis. Accordingly, targeting and blocking tumor-promoting cytokines or activating and amplifying tumor-inhibiting cytokines are considered cancer-directed therapies. Here, we focus on the role of the inflammatory cytokine system in pro- and anti-tumor immune responses, discuss cytokine pathways involved in immune responses to cancer and some anti-cancer therapeutic applications.
Authors: Ola Habanjar, R. Bingula, C. Decombat, M. Diab‐Assaf, F. Caldefie-Chézet, L. Delort
Venue: International Journal of Molecular Sciences
Tldr: {'model': 'tldr@v2.0.0', 'text': 'The role of the inflammatory cytokine system in pro- and anti-tumor immune responses is focused on, and cytokine pathways involved in immune responses to cancer and some anti-cancer therapeutic applications are discussed.'}
