Faculty Name: raj reddy
Metadata:
Paperid: 0e175e5836fcf16795dd7b9399e0754cce698602
Title: Integrative Multi-omic Profiling of Two Human Decedents Receiving Pig Heart Xenografts Reveals Strong Perturbations in Early Immune-Cell and Cellular Metabolism Responses
Year: 2023
Abstract: Background Recent advances in xenotransplantation in living and decedent humans using pig xenografts have laid promising groundwork towards future emergency use and first in human trials. Major obstacles remain though, including a lack of knowledge of the genetic incompatibilities between pig donors and human recipients which may led to harmful immune responses against the xenograft or dysregulation of normal physiology. In 2022 two pig heart xenografts were transplanted into two brain-dead human decedents with a minimized immunosuppression regime, primarily to evaluate onset of hyper-acute antibody mediated rejection and sustained xenograft function over 3 days. Methods We performed multi-omic profiling to assess the dynamic interactions between the pig and human genomes in the first two pig heart-xenografts transplants into human decedents. To assess global and specific biological changes that may correlate with immune-related outcomes and xenograft function, we generated transcriptomic, lipidomic, proteomic and metabolomics datasets, across blood and tissue samples collected every 6 hours over the 3-day procedures. Results Single-cell datasets in the 3-day pig xenograft-decedent models show dynamic immune activation processes. We observe specific scRNA-seq, snRNA-seq and geospatial transcriptomic changes of early immune-activation leading to pronounced downstream T-cell activity and hallmarks of early antibody mediated rejection (AbMR) and/or ischemia reperfusion injury (IRI) in the first xenograft recipient. Using longitudinal multiomic integrative analyses from blood in addition to antigen presentation pathway enrichment, we also observe in the first xeno-heart recipient significant cellular metabolism and liver damage pathway changes that correlate with profound physiological dysfunction whereas, these signals are not present in the other xenograft recipient. Conclusions Single-cell and multiomics approaches reveal fundamental insights into early molecular immune responses indicative of IRI and/or early AbMR in the first human decedent, which was not evident in the conventional histological evaluations.
Authors: Eloi Schmauch, B. Piening, Bo Xia, Chenchen Zhu, J. Stern, Wei-Meng Zhang, A. Dowdell, Bao-Li Loza, Maede Mohebnasab, L. Gragert, K. Khalil, Brendan R. Camellato, M. F. de Oliveira, D. O’Brien, E. Weldon, Xiangping Lin, Hui Gao, L. Kagermazova, Jacqueline I. Kim, A. Loupy, A. Heguy, S. Taylor, Florrie Zhu, Sarah Gao, Divya Gandla, K. Reddy, A. Chang, Basil Michael, Lihua Jiang, Ruiqi Jian, N. Narula, S. Linna-Kuosmanen, Minna Kaikkonen-Määttä, M. Lorber, M. Kellis, V. Tatapudi, D. Ayares, A. Griesemer, M. Mangiola, H. Pass, M. Snyder, Robert A. Montgomery, J. Boeke, B. Keating
Venue: bioRxiv
Tldr: {'model': 'tldr@v2.0.0', 'text': 'Single-cell and multiomics approaches reveal fundamental insights into early molecular immune responses indicative of IRI and/or early AbMR in the first human decedent, which was not evident in the conventional histological evaluations.'}
