Faculty Name: raj reddy
Metadata:
Paperid: 405a3700dabfc2e6e024a35dbca6af5ee20b67f2
Title: Jigsaw: A step toward co-operative learning among medical and nursing students
Year: 2023
Abstract: Background and Aim: To shift the paradigm from passive tutor driven tutorials to more responsible active learning by the students, a co operative teaching learning method could be a good alternative. The Jigsaw approach, a model of co operative learning, focuses on learning in groups with fellow learner co operation and reassures team work. Thus, this study was aimed at assessing the effectiveness of jigsaw strategy in comparison to tutorials in enhancing cognitive skills among the medical students in microbiology. Materials and Methods: A cross sectional study was carried out at microbiology department for 50 consenting MBBS students of professional year II and 50 consenting B.Sc nursing students of 2nd years. Students were randomly divided into two batches: Aand B of 25 students each. They were prepared for either a jigsaw (Experimental) or tutorial (Control) a week prior on predecided topics. The same groups were crossed over for another topic. Students' performance was assessed by pretest, posttest, academic achievement level, and retention test by prevalidated multiple choice questionnaires. The student perception on TL methods was evaluated by using learning experience questionnaires. Results: Posttest scores of both groups were found to be significant at the level of P < 0.05. Among medical students, mean of posttest scores in the jigsaw is more than tutorial (12.4 v/s 9.7, crossover 13.3 v/s 11.2) and in nursing students (11.7 v/s 8.2, crossover 11.6 v/s 9.9). Mean retention tests scores and absolute achievement level were high in jigsaw groups. The students preferred jigsaw over the tutorial. Conclusion: Jigsaw strategy is a robust instructional tool, well perceived by the students to enhance cognitive skills as inferred by the results and can be tailored to the needs of varied topics across different disciplines.
Authors: Vinod Kumar C S, S. Kalasuramath, S. Reddy, R. Reddy
Venue: Archives of Medicine and Health Sciences
Tldr: {'model': 'tldr@v2.0.0', 'text': 'Jigsaw strategy is a robust instructional tool, well perceived by the students to enhance cognitive skills as inferred by the results and can be tailored to the needs of varied topics across different disciplines.'}
