Faculty Name: rita singh
Metadata:
Paperid: 47b70ad4c09a3195d24f926279afd5f35badbe86
Title: Comparison of freeze-thaw and sonication cycle-based methods for extracting AMR-associated metabolites from Staphylococcus aureus
Year: 2023
Abstract: Emerging antimicrobial resistance (AMR) among Gram-positive pathogens, specifically in Staphylococcus aureus (S. aureus), is becoming a leading public health concern demanding effective therapeutics. Metabolite modulation can improve the efficacy of existing antibiotics and facilitate the development of effective therapeutics. However, it remained unexplored for drug-resistant S. aureus (gentamicin and methicillin-resistant), primarily due to the dearth of optimal metabolite extraction protocols including a protocol for AMR-associated metabolites. Therefore, in this investigation, we have compared the performance of the two most widely used methods, i.e., freeze-thaw cycle (FTC) and sonication cycle (SC), alone and in combination (FTC + SC), and identified the optimal method for this purpose. A total of 116, 119, and 99 metabolites were identified using the FTC, SC, and FTC + SC methods, respectively, leading to the identification of 163 metabolites cumulatively. Out of 163, 69 metabolites were found to be associated with AMR in published literature consisting of the highest number of metabolites identified by FTC (57) followed by SC (54) and FTC + SC (40). Thus, the performances of FTC and SC methods were comparable with no additional benefits of combining both. Moreover, each method showed biasness toward specific metabolite(s) or class of metabolites, suggesting that the choice of metabolite extraction method shall be decided based on the metabolites of interest in the investigation.
Authors: Rita Singh, Lovnish Thakur, Anil Kumar, Sevaram Singh, S Kumar, M. Kumar, Yashwant Kumar, Niraj Kumar
Venue: Frontiers in Microbiology
Tldr: {'model': 'tldr@v2.0.0', 'text': 'The performances of FTC and SC methods were comparable with no additional benefits of combining both, and each method showed biasness toward specific metabolite(s) or class of metabolites, suggesting that the choice of metabolite extraction method shall be decided based on the metabolites of interest in the investigation.'}
