Faculty Name: shinji watanabe
Metadata:
Paperid: 4c6bb748e22e2e599faf8fd30821ee03053579b7
Title: A Randomized, Double-Blind, Controlled Trial Assessing If Medium-Chain Triglycerides in Combination with Moderate-Intensity Exercise Increase Muscle Strength in Healthy Middle-Aged and Older Adults
Year: 2023
Abstract: An adequate nutritional intake is recommended for the prevention of physical frailty and sarcopenia. In particular, medium-chain fatty acids (MCFAs) are reportedly important for muscle strength in nursing home residents. However, the effects of MCFAs on healthy adults at risk for frailty remain unknown. Hence, a randomized, placebo-controlled study was conducted to investigate the effects of 12 weeks of medium-chain triglycerides (MCTs) intake and walking on muscle mass and function in healthy, sedentary, middle-aged and older adults with a low body mass index. Three MCT intake groups with different amounts of octanoic and decanoic acid intake were compared with a control group. After 12 weeks, knee extension strength increased in all groups, with the increases in all MCT intake groups being significantly higher than those in the control group (p < 0.05). Grip strength significantly increased from baseline in the MCT 6 g/day intake group (p < 0.05). The combination of aerobic exercise and MCT intake may be effective in preventing decline in muscle strength and promoting increase in muscle strength as they can improve muscle energy production, thereby contributing to the maintenance of good health for middle-aged and older adults at high risk for frailty and sarcopenia.
Authors: K. Kojima, Haruna Ishikawa, Shinji Watanabe, N. Nosaka, Tatsushi Mutoh
Venue: Nutrients
Tldr: {'model': 'tldr@v2.0.0', 'text': 'The combination of aerobic exercise and MCT intake may be effective in preventing decline in muscle strength and promoting increase in Muscle strength as they can improve muscle energy production, thereby contributing to the maintenance of good health for middle-aged and older adults at high risk for frailty and sarcopenia.'}
