Faculty Name: tom mitchell
Metadata:
Paperid: 5b8eaeee3a4bb4de7ab2ad573be33477828e7966
Title: Neuropilin-1 interacts with VE-cadherin and TGFBR2 to stabilize adherens junctions and prevent activation of endothelium under flow
Year: 2023
Abstract: Linear and disturbed flow differentially regulate gene expression, with disturbed flow priming endothelial cells (ECs) for a proinflammatory, atheroprone expression profile and phenotype. Here, we investigated the role of the transmembrane protein neuropilin-1 (NRP1) in ECs exposed to flow using cultured ECs, mice with an endothelium-specific knockout of NRP1, and a mouse model of atherosclerosis. We demonstrated that NRP1 was a constituent of adherens junctions that interacted with VE-cadherin and promoted its association with p120 catenin, stabilizing adherens junctions and inducing cytoskeletal remodeling in alignment with the direction of flow. We also showed that NRP1 interacted with transforming growth factor–β (TGF-β) receptor II (TGFBR2) and reduced the plasma membrane localization of TGFBR2 and TGF-β signaling. NRP1 knockdown increased the abundance of proinflammatory cytokines and adhesion molecules, resulting in increased leukocyte rolling and atherosclerotic plaque size. These findings describe a role for NRP1 in promoting endothelial function and reveal a mechanism by which NRP1 reduction in ECs may contribute to vascular disease by modulating adherens junction signaling and promoting TGF-β signaling and inflammation. Description The barrier function and quiescence of the endothelium are supported by transmembrane protein NRP1. Maintaining a quiescent endothelium Atherosclerosis causes disturbed blood flow that activates inflammatory pathways in endothelial cells, which attracts leukocytes to plaques and exacerbates disease progression. Bosseboeuf et al. investigated the role of the transmembrane protein NRP1 in the response of the endothelium to flow. Under normal flow patterns, NRP1 stabilized protein complexes at cell-cell junctions called adherens junctions and suppressed endothelial inflammation. In mice, NRP1 deficiency was associated with greater numbers of rolling leukocytes on endothelial cells in vitro and in vivo and larger plaque sizes in a model of atherosclerosis. Thus, NRP1 maintains the endothelium in a quiescent state and may limit inflammation in the endothelium under the disturbed blood flow patterns that are characteristic of atherosclerosis. —WW
Authors: Emy Bosseboeuf, Anissa Chikh, A. B. Chaker, T. P. Mitchell, Dhilakshani Vignaraja, Ridhi Rajendrakumar, R. Khambata, T. Nightingale, Justin Charles Mason, A. Randi, A. Ahluwalia, C. Raimondi
Venue: Science Signaling
Tldr: {'model': 'tldr@v2.0.0', 'text': 'A role for NRP1 in promoting endothelial function is described and a mechanism by which N RP1 reduction in ECs may contribute to vascular disease by modulating adherens junction signaling and promoting TGF-β signaling and inflammation is revealed.'}
