Faculty Name: yang yiming
Metadata:
Paperid: e55d2e5eaabf1ecef8a4d27c669413deb51690e9
Title: The Relationship between the Serum NLRP1 Level and Coronary Lesions in Patients with Coronary Artery Disease
Year: 2023
Abstract: Background The pathogenesis of coronary artery disease is complex, and inflammation is one of the regulatory factors. The nucleotide-binding oligomerization domain (NOD)-like receptor protein 1 (NLRP1) plays an important role in the cellular inflammatory response, cell apoptosis, cell death, and autoimmune diseases. Whether the level of NLRP1 is related to the severity of coronary artery stenosis in patients with coronary artery disease (CAD) has not been reported. Objective To test the serum level of NLRP1 in unstable angina (UA) patients and investigate the effect of NLRP1 on coronary stenosis severity of the coronary artery disease (CAD). Methods 307 patients hospitalized in the Department of Cardiology of the Affiliated Hospital of Xuzhou Medical University for coronary angiography from January 1, 2021, to December 31, 2022 were included. We detect the level of NLRP1 in the serum of the included patients. Patients were divided into UA group and control group according to coronary angiography results and other clinical data. We use logistic regression to screen the influencing factors of UA. Then, subgroups were divided according to the Gensini score and the number of coronary artery lesions, and the difference of serum NLRP1 level between the groups was compared. Spearman correlation analysis was used to explore the correlation between the serum NLRP1 level and Gensini score. We analyze the diagnostic value of NLRP1 for UA by drawing ROC curve. Results The median level of serum NLRP1 in patients with UA (n = 257) was 49.71 pg/ml, IQR 30.15, 80.21, and that in patients without UA (n = 50) was 24.75 pg/ml, IQR 13.49, 41.95. Serum NLRP1 levels were significantly different among different subgroups. The patient's Gensini score was correlated with the patient's serum NLRP1 level. Conclusion The serum NLRP1 level is increased in patients with UA, which is increased with the increasing severity of coronary lesions.
Authors: Jing Zong, Yixiao Wang, Siyu Pan, Yiming Yang, Jingfeng Peng, Fangfang Li, Luhong Xu, Shanshan Li, Wen-hao Qian
Venue: International journal of clinical practice
Tldr: {'model': 'tldr@v2.0.0', 'text': 'The serumNLRP1 level is increased in patients with UA, which is increased with the increasing severity of coronary lesions, and the diagnostic value of NLRP1 for UA is analyzed by drawing ROC curve.'}
