Faculty Name: bhiksha raj
Paperid: ac856b6b7b3f32fb34320b7170526d3ab15ba5f3
Title: Fairness Continual Learning Approach to Semantic Scene Understanding in Open-World Environments
Year: 2023
Abstract: Continual semantic segmentation aims to learn new classes while maintaining the information from the previous classes. Although prior studies have shown impressive progress in recent years, the fairness concern in the continual semantic segmentation needs to be better addressed. Meanwhile, fairness is one of the most vital factors in deploying the deep learning model, especially in human-related or safety applications. In this paper, we present a novel Fairness Continual Learning approach to the semantic segmentation problem. In particular, under the fairness objective, a new fairness continual learning framework is proposed based on class distributions. Then, a novel Prototypical Contrastive Clustering loss is proposed to address the significant challenges in continual learning, i.e., catastrophic forgetting and background shift. Our proposed loss has also been proven as a novel, generalized learning paradigm of knowledge distillation commonly used in continual learning. Moreover, the proposed Conditional Structural Consistency loss further regularized the structural constraint of the predicted segmentation. Our proposed approach has achieved State-of-the-Art performance on three standard scene understanding benchmarks, i.e., ADE20K, Cityscapes, and Pascal VOC, and promoted the fairness of the segmentation model.
Authors: Thanh-Dat Truong, Hoang-Quan Nguyen, B. Raj, Khoa Luu
Venue: Neural Information Processing Systems
Tldr: {'model': 'tldr@v2.0.0', 'text': 'A novel Fairness Continual Learning approach to the semantic segmentation problem is presented, in particular, a new fairness continual learning framework is proposed based on class distributions and a novel Prototypical Contrastive Clustering loss is proposed to address the significant challenges in continual learning.'}
Url: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2305.15700
