yonatan bisk is an assistant professor, language technologies institute at CMU.
ralf brown is the senior systems scientist/chair of admissions, language technologies institute at CMU.
jamie callan is a professor, language technologies institute at CMU.
justine cassel is a professor (on leave), language technologies institute at CMU.
mona diab is the lti director and tenured professor, language technologies institute at CMU.
fernando diaz is an associate professor, language technologies institute at CMU.
scott fahlman is the professor emeritus, language technologies institute at CMU.
robert frederking is the associate dean for PhD programs and chair for MLT program, language technologies institute at CMU.
daniel fried is an assistant professor, language technologies institute at CMU.
alexander hauptmann is a research professor, language technologies institute at CMU.
daphne ippolito is an assistant professor, language technologies institute at CMU.
lori levin is a research professor, language technologies institute at CMU.
lei li is an assistant professor, language technologies institute at CMU.
teruko mitamura is a research professor, language technologies institute at CMU.
louis-philippe morency is the leonardo associate professor of computer science (on leave), language technologies institute at CMU.
david mortensen is an assistant research professor, language technologies institute at CMU.
graham neubig is an associate professor, language technologies institute at CMU.
eric nyberg is a professor, language technologies institute at CMU.
kemal oflazer is a teaching professor, language technologies institute at CMU.
bhiksha raj is a professor, language technologies institute at CMU.
carolyn rose is a professor, language technologies institute at CMU.
alexander rudnicky is the "research professor emeritus", language technologies institute at CMU.
maarten sap is an assistant professor, language technologies institute at CMU.
michael shamos is the "distinguished career professor", language technologies institute at CMU.
rita singh is an associate research professor, language technologies institute at CMU.
emma strubell is an assistant professor, language technologies institute at CMU.
alexander waibel is a professor (on leave), language technologies institute at CMU.
shinji watanabe is an associate professor, language technologies institute at CMU.
sean welleck is an assistant professor, language technologies institute at CMU.
eric xing is the professor (on leave), language technologies institute at CMU.
chenyan xiong is an associate professor, language technologies institute at CMU.
yiming yang is a professor, language technologies institute at CMU.
