Faculty Name: shinji watanabe
Paperid: 2f9860ab7979516fe2d4b503bb4b0bcdbd045bf2
Title: Antigenic drift and subtype interference shape A(H3N2) epidemic dynamics in the United States
Year: 2023
Abstract: Influenza viruses continually evolve new antigenic variants, through mutations in epitopes of their major surface proteins, hemagglutinin (HA) and neuraminidase (NA). Antigenic drift potentiates the reinfection of previously infected individuals, but the contribution of this process to variability in annual epidemics is not well understood. Here we link influenza A(H3N2) virus evolution to regional epidemic dynamics in the United States during 1997-2019. We integrate phenotypic measures of HA antigenic drift and sequence-based measures of HA and NA fitness to infer antigenic and genetic distances between viruses circulating in successive seasons. We estimate the magnitude, severity, timing, transmission rate, age-specific patterns, and subtype dominance of each regional outbreak and find that genetic distance based on broad sets of epitope sites is the strongest evolutionary predictor of A(H3N2) virus epidemiology. Increased HA and NA epitope distance between seasons correlates with larger, more intense epidemics, higher transmission, greater A(H3N2) subtype dominance, and a greater proportion of cases in adults relative to children, consistent with increased population susceptibility. Based on random forest models, A(H1N1) incidence impacts A(H3N2) epidemics to a greater extent than viral evolution, suggesting that subtype interference is a major driver of influenza A virus infection dynamics, presumably via heterosubtypic cross-immunity.
Authors: A. Perofsky, John Huddleston, Chelsea Hansen, John R. Barnes, Thomas Rowe, Xiyan Xu, Rebecca J. Kondor, D. Wentworth, Nicola S. Lewis, L. Whittaker, B. Ermetal, Ruth Harvey, Monica Galiano, R. S. Daniels, John W McCauley, Seiichiro Fujisaki, Kazuya Nakamura, Noriko Kishida, Shinji Watanabe, Hideki Hasegawa, Sheena G. Sullivan, Ian G. Barr, Kanta Subbarao, F. Krammer, Trevor Bedford, Cécile Viboud
Venue: medRxiv
Tldr: {'model': 'tldr@v2.0.0', 'text': 'Increased HA and NA epitope distance between seasons correlates with larger, more intense epidemics, higher transmission, greater A(H3N2) subtype dominance, and a greater proportion of cases in adults relative to children, consistent with increased population susceptibility.'}
Url: N/A
