Title: Towards Open-Domain Twitter User Profile Inference
Authors: Haoyang Wen, Zhenxin Xiao, Eduard H. Hovy, Alexander G. Hauptmann
Section: 6 Conclusion
without selecting certain groups of users. However, we acknowledge that the collective information may still contain unintentional social biases. As an example, one of the potential issues is that people who have WikiData profiles are public figures, which may not reflect the actual distribution over general populations (e.g., occupation). Besides, as in Abid et al. (2021), large language models themselves may contain biases. WikiData is constantly edited by a large number of WikiData contributors and maintainers. Although we try to make our study as representative as possible, it is possible that a statement from WikiData may not reflect the preception from certain groups or individual (Shenoy et al., 2022). We would like stakeholders to be aware of these issues and we urge stakeholders to first investigate the effect of potential issues before drawing any conclusions for any individual or social group using this work. Proper use v.s. improper use. The major difference between proper use and improper use is whether the use case follows necessary legal and ethical regulations or framework. For example, Williams et al. (2017) propose an ethical framework based on users’ consent to conduct Twitter social research. If the information is not publicly available, one must obtain consent. Opt-out consent can be used when the information is not sensitive, otherwise opt-in consent is required. With proper regulations, this work can be used to enhance personalized user experience, investigate what stakeholders to know to effectively protect personal information. Sensitivity of personal information. In this work we follow Twitter Developer Agreement and Policy and remove sensitive personal information. But it is still possible to infer sensitive information indirectly. For example, “candidacy in election” may be possibly used to infer political affiliation although the affiliations are generally public for those people. Similarly, personal pronouns, widely present in tweets, may also be used to infer gender. Furthermore, combinations of various sources might allow personal identification (Sweeney, 2000a,b). Even though we do not use private information in our work, based on our results, we speculate that there are unobserved risks of privacy loss for using Twitter. Therefore, We ask that future work should fully comply with regulations and any non-public or private results should be properly protected (Kreuter et al., 2022). We have set up the following protocol to ensure the proper use and to prevent adverse impact: • We believe that increasing the transparency of the pipeline can help prevent potential social harm. We plan to release all necessary resources for research reproduction purposes so that others can audit and verify