Title: Training on Foveated Images Improves Robustness to Adversarial Attacks
Authors: Muhammad A. Shah
Section: 3.2 Results
robustness of R-Blur generalizes beyond the training conditions, while G-Noise overfits to them. This makes R-Blur particularly suited for settings in which the exact adversarial attack budget is not known, and the model must be able to generalize. R-Blur Improves Accuracy on Common (Non-Adversarial) Corruptions: Adversarial perturbations constitute only a small subset of perturbations that human vision is invariant to, therefore we evaluate the R-Blur on some other common types of image corruptions that humans are largely invariant to but DNNs are not. At this point, we also include the adversarially trained ResNet (AT) in the evaluation to measure how well the robustness endowed by adversarial training generalizes to other, non-adversarial, corruptions, and compare it with biologically motivated methods. We sampled 2 images/class from Imagenet and 5 images/class from Ecoset. Then we applied the 17 of the 19 3 common (non-adversarial) corruptions proposed in [Hendrycks and Dietterich, 2019] at 5 different severity levels to generate 85 corrupted versions of each image leading to corrupted versions of Imagenet and Ecoset containing 170K and 240K images, respectively. Table 1 shows the accuracy achieved by the models on Ecoset and Imagenet under adversarial and non-adversarial perturbations. As expected, AT achieved the highest accuracy on whitebox attacks by virtue of being trained on data perturbed with attacks very similar to APGD. After AT , the most adversarially robust model is R-Blur, followed by VOneBlock. We see that R-Blur is the most accurate model on non-adversarial common corruptions, followed by VOneBlock, which supports our hypothesis that the robustness of biologically motivated methods in general, and R-Blur in particular, is highly generalizable. In contrast, the accuracy of AT on common corruptions is almost the same as that of the unmodified ResNet, indicating that the robustness of AT does not generalize well.