Title: Linguistic representations for fewer-shot relation extraction across domains
Authors: Sireesh Gururaja, Ritam Dutt, Tinglong Liao, Carolyn Rosé
Section: 6 Results and Discussion
use this design rather than pairwise significance tests so that we can measure the effect of introducing linguistic formalisms as a whole, rather than arguing the statistical significance of individual, pairwise comparisons. We expect that the similarity between source and target datasets, the variation in the target dataset, and the few-shot setting could all either dampen or magnify any effect of representation on the performance. We therefore include pairwise interaction terms in the ANOVA model for case by source dataset, case by target dataset, case by transfer setting, and case by few-shot setting. The examples added for the few shot setting in the transfer case are sampled from the training split of the target dataset. Thus, while we expect for the crossdomain case the few shot setting has an effect, we do not expect an effect in the in-domain case, since the target domain examples added to the training data simply replicate examples that were already part of the dataset. To account for this, we include a final interaction term between few shot setting and transfer setting in the ANOVA model. The ANOVA model explains 98% of the variation in F1 scores. The results align well with our intuitions. First, as expected we find a significant effect of transfer setting such that in-domain performance on the entire dataset is better than transfer performance in a few-shot setting: F(1, 679) = 10356.25, p < .0001. In these cases, the original dataset for in-domain training is between 5 and 15 times the size of the target training dataset. We also find a significant effect of the few-shot setting, such that larger numbers of target domain examples are associated with higher performance, F(5, 679) = 716.79, p < .0001. A post-hoc student-t analysis reveals that all pairwise comparisons are significant. Notably, there is a significant interaction between transfer setting and few shot setting: F(5, 679) = 733.83, p < .0001, such that the effect of the fewshot setting is restricted to the transfer setting, as expected. Our hypothesis is primarily related to the importance of the representation of the data for efficiently enabling transfer between domains. We find a significant effect of representation case: F(2, 679) = 5.26, p < .01. A student-t post-hoc analysis reveals that both +Dep and +AMR cases are better than plain text, but there is no significant difference between the two. There is also a significant interaction between representation case and transfer setting: F(2, 679) = 8.19, p < .0005. In particular, the effect of case is only