Title: Enhancing student learning and achievement through orchestration of group processes and group composition
Authors: Carolyn P. Rosé, Georgios Psathas, Stergios Tegos, Stavros N. Demetriadis, C. P. Rosé, S. Järvelä
Section: Introduction
of discourse or meta-discourse processes. This study demonstrates a clear impact of meta-discourse on collaboration that widened over time, which makes a compelling argument for the importance of this work to the community. Group composition effects on supportive feedback processes The second pair of articles in this September issue focus on features of feedback that affect the quality and impact of the feedback, for example, in one case the type and depth of feedback, and the other case the source of feedback in terms of the relative skill level of provider and recipient of the feedback. In the first case, the feedback under investigation occurred between members of different collaborative groups within the same classroom, as part of a computer-supported collaborative learning activity. In the second study, the data came from a peer review activity within a classroom that occurred after individual students completed a writing assignment on their own. Considering these articles together, we are reminded that feedback between students is valuable both in collaborative and individual learning settings. In both cases students offer cognitive scaffolding to one another in their interaction, even if the interaction is not synchronous (i.e., through peer feedback on writing, where each contribution to the discussion occurs at a distinct time point, namely, the time of article writing, the time of feedback writing, and the time of feedback receipt). The first of this second pair of articles is by Jesmine S. H. Tan, Wenli Chen, Junzhu Su and Guo Su, entitled “The Mechanism and Effect of Classwide Peer Feedback on Conceptual Knowledge Improvement: Does Different Feedback Type Matter?”. In that article a qualitative analysis of feedback processes is conducted as an exploratory case study after a CSCL activity employing the Spiral Model of collaboration (Chen et al., 2021), which was determined to be successful in producing significant pre-to-posttest gains in knowledge as measured by a test. During the activity, students offered feedback to one another through a structured, peer critique interface. The connection between feedback, knowledge improvement, and learning is investigated in the analysis. A script prompts students to push for deeper and deeper feedback and discussion. Results showed that feedback that probed for deeper conceptual understanding were particularly effective, though they were cognitively more demanding. The final article of this September issue is by Zheng Zong and Christian D. Schunn, entitled “Does Matching Peers at Finer-Grained Levels of Prior Performance Enhance Gains in Task Performance from Peer Review?”. In this article, a secondary data analysis simulating an experimental study is presented of data