Title: Enhancing student learning and achievement through orchestration of group processes and group composition
Authors: Carolyn P. Rosé, Georgios Psathas, Stergios Tegos, Stavros N. Demetriadis, C. P. Rosé, S. Järvelä
Section: Introduction
collected from 3 large classrooms where a peer review activity with the Peerceptiv system (Wu & Schunn, 2022) was conducted. Results from the study could inform development of an automated algorithm to group students for interaction based on a policy considering skill level of the students, in this case to offer one another feedback on writing. As in the Tan et al. study, feedback was offered through a structured peer feedback interface, which is a form of explicit scaffolding for processes. However, in contrast, interventions that group students in order to promote productive learning processes can be regarded as implicit scaffolding for collaboration (Wang et al., 2017). The research aimed to identify the optimal level of detail regarding assessment of skill for the purpose of assigning students to effective pairings. Past work on pairing based on 1 3 325 C. P. Rosé, S. Järvelä skill level with a coarse grained approach failed to demonstrate an impact of this intentional pairing. In this study, both a coarse grained and a fine grained approach were evaluated and then contrasted. The analysis of results demonstrated that fine grained matching is needed in order to yield a significant effect. An interesting feature of the analysis of results is that the impact of the intervention was evaluated both at the whole class level as well as at the subset level (e.g., within ability level groupings). Since fine-grained matching by ability level was demonstrated to be optimal except in pairs where both are at the very low ability level, it is necessary to consider the relationship between effects of differently nuanced policies from the receiver level and the giver level, as measured within ability level groupings and over the class as a whole in order to make an informed decision for a specific class, with its own unique distribution of skill levels across students.