Title: Editorial: Nine elements for robust collaborative learning analytics: A constructive collaborative critique
Authors: 
Section: Introduction
from an understanding of the current learning situation to what can be changed to productively improve it, Ochoa & Wise, 2021). These are both inherently tied to a growing emphasis on human-centered learning analytics (Buckingham Shum et al., 2019), which centrally draws on the human– computer interaction techniques of participatory and co-design to include the intended users of learning analytics systems in the process of their design (Sarmiento & Wise, 2022). Such approaches attempt to find a productive intersection among (a) the needs of teachers and students within a given CSCL situation, (b) theoretically valued constructs of learning, and (c) available data (Martinez-Maldonado et al., 2021) and are also helping the field move towards greater transparency in the design of LA tools. Here again, CSCL and the larger Learning Sciences have a valuable contribution to make to the field of LA by drawing on their long traditions of design-based research for documenting iterative processes of making and testing design decisions (Hoadley & Campos, 2022). Element 8. Examination of how LA are used in the world There is increased emphasis in the field of LA on understanding how analytics tools are actually used by teachers, students and others to inform and improve their (collaborative) learning activity. Certainly we want to show that the tools we build have an impact, but simple evaluations showing that learning with an analytic solution (which contains many component decisions with respect to data, analysis, presentation and integration) is more effective than without do not offer specific generalization knowledge contributions to inform other future efforts. In contrast, studies that include detailed mixed-methods component that help us understand how and/or why teachers and students work with analytics tools in specific ways and how this informs their understanding of and engagement in collaborative activity have much greater power to both improve models of intentional collaborative learning and design better CSCL tools in the future. Here “better” is defined as an ability to positively impact collaborative learning activity and the development of collaborative learning and group regulatory skills. Element 9. Attention to systems level and ethical concerns There is a systems level view of LA that has hopefully been apparent throughout this discussion where the ultimate lens is larger than just the interaction of a number of individuals with an analytic learning tool, but one which takes into account the existing institutions into which such tools will be introduced. This includes elements such as their power structures, expectations of privacy, and underlying technical infrastructure and, most explicitly, an anticipatory consideration