Title: Enhancing student learning and achievement through orchestration of group processes and group composition
Authors: Carolyn P. Rosé, Georgios Psathas, Stergios Tegos, Stavros N. Demetriadis, C. P. Rosé, S. Järvelä
Section: Introduction
characteristics of students and supportive interventions on student participation in chat activities and subsequently their retention in the course. MOOC students were assigned to one of three conditions, namely: control, general intervention, and personalized intervention. The experimental manipulation happened outside of the collaborative-chat activities and determined the kind of support, if any, offered through email messages that occurred at regular intervals throughout the course. Students were all offered the opportunity to participate in chat-based collaborative activities regardless of condition. While prior work investigating the impact of chat activities on retention in MOOCs demonstrated that participation in the collaborative activities promoted retention, the majority of students in that past study did not choose to participate in the chat activities (Tomar et al., 2016). Thus, this current study that demonstrates the impact of an intervention outside of the chat activities that promotes student participation in the chat activities themselves is an important landmark. The second article, by Yuyao Tong and Carol K. K. Chan, is entitled “Promoting Knowledge Building through Meta-Discourse and Epistemic Discourse Understanding”. This article presented a quasi-experimental design contrasting two classrooms, both using Knowledge Forum, but under different conditions. This study is one in a long history of Knowledge Forum studies featured in this journal (e.g., Zhang et al., 2020; van Aalst, 2009). While a great many past studies of Knowledge Forum presented analyses that focused on classroom communities where everyone experienced the same intervention, this study offers the opportunity for statistical contrast between students in a class where the intervention is present within the Knowledge Forum and a class where it was not present. The experimental contrast focused on enrichment of meta-discourse in the midst of knowledge building. An interesting aspect of the meta-discourse that students participated in was that they expressed their ideas about the discourse graphically through drawings. A wide variety of data were collected throughout the study, including video, tests, and the discourse itself from Knowledge Forum. Analysis of the discourse collected during the study was supported through an analytics-based tool used in past studies of Knowledge Forum, referred to as KBDeX (Oshima et al., 2012). The analysis provides the opportunity to view through rich, qualitative analysis the impact of metacognitive reflection, principlebased inquiry, and idea development on inquiry in Knowledge Forum. Though study of discourse processes, how they can be scaffolded, and how they promote learning and other 1 3 324 Enhancing student learning and achievement through orchestration of… collaborative outcomes is frequent in the CSCL literature, far less has focused on meta-level understanding