Title: Editorial: Nine elements for robust collaborative learning analytics: A constructive collaborative critique
Authors: 
Section: Introduction
expected to act upon it. Element 5. Multi‑channel and/or physical space data Looking at data collection itself more closely, collaborative learning naturally lends itself to multi-channel data (e.g. in the asynchronous context: language plus clicks as well as a potentially a shared product and its evolution). And while much of CSCL has developed based on data collected in virtual spaces, greater availability of low-cost sensing devices (e.g. eye-trackers, motion detectors) as well as advances in the ability of computer vision to extract useful traces from video data open exciting new doors for the study and support of collaborative learning in the physical spaces (e.g. Nguyen et al., 2022) where much of the collaborative learning we care about happens. Element 6. Careful attention to what information to provide to whom and how Taking to heart the goal of both CSCL and LA to not only understand but support learning, there remains great potential for thoughtful attention to the ways that analytics can be used to inform collaborative interactions and help students improve their collaborative skills. Whether seeing the potential for responsive feedback on collaborative processes as a more agentic alternative to upfront scripting (Wise & Schwarz, 2017) or the use of analytics as a way to make scripting more adaptive (Vogel et al., 2021), the question of what kinds of information to make available to what actors in what ways and at what points in time is an area of work ripe for exploration. Here there are also several potential ways for CSCL to 1 3 make a contribution back to the field of LA more generally. First, while in LA dashboards have been the primary form taken by analytic technologies, CSCL has a long tradition exploring various mediums for generating group awareness (Buder et al., 2021) that can happen integrated into the flow of collaboration, rather than necessitating “stepping out” to take a reflective moment (Ackermann, 1996). Second, while LA has focused more on the creation of tools for teachers, tapping into some of the original ideas related to student agency and autonomy motivating the pursuit of CSCL offer potential to explore the largely uncharted space of student-facing analytics. Element 7. Human‑centered approach to LA design Recent directions in LA that could prove useful to CSCL researchers working to “close-the-loop” include the development of analytics that are explainable and configurable. The focus here is on allowing for two-way interaction between human and tool (as opposed to just the one-way flow of information), as well as promoting actionability (i.e., supporting movement