Title: Editorial: Nine elements for robust collaborative learning analytics: A constructive collaborative critique
Authors: 
Section: Analytic‑enabled support of collaborative learning processes
knowledge building, group performance, and socially shared regulation in CSCL” in which the focus is on groups’ collaborative engagement, including ways to automatically detect it and display back to learners while collaborating. The underlying theoretical framing pays primary attention to the group as the unit of analysis, except the socio-gram, which was developed to offer more insights about how group members interacted with specific others. Further investigation of the interplay between the individual and the group is left for future work as is an exploration of temporality. The data features text-based interactions and click-stream data and thus future work might offer more nuanced insights by incorporating more multi-modality in the setup. With respect to careful clicks to constructs mapping, the scheme for hand coding training data seems well-grounded, but an opportunity to probe deeper might relate to validation of the coding constructs via automated coding. Usage of deep learning in automated analysis of collaborative learning has increased over the past five years, and will increase still more with the current attention to Large Language Models in the education sphere. The specific focus of the analytic work in this article comprises cognitive engagement, metacognitive engagement, behavioral engagement, and emotional engagement to classify each segment of the transcripts. A BERT-based model is then used to automatically classify each segment into cognitive engagement, remembering, understanding, applying, and evaluating as well as off-topic. Further scrutiny of the use of such models would be valuable at this crossroads. A strength of this work is that the LA provided suggestive feedback based on the group learning engagement analysis results. They paid attention to what information to show back to whom (again learners) embedded within principles for their high-level design. Further explanation of the decisions made in the process of designing the tool, for example in relation to the presentation of bar graphs vs. pie charts and sociograms would lend more insights into collaborative learning analytics creation that future researchers would find useful. A valuable next step in the analysis might be an investigation into the mechanisms of how / why aspects of the interventions were appropriated by students, and how these patterns of appropriation might be improved. It is notable that the authors examined effects of the designed tool on group learning engagement, group performance, collaborative knowledge-building level, socially shared regulation, and cognitive load. The rich data collected offer opportunities in future work to probe further into how often and when in the learning process students accessed the dashboard, whether and how it was discussed by