Title: Text Matching Improves Sequential Recommendation by Reducing Popularity Biases
Authors: Zhenghao Liu, Sen Mei, Chenyan Xiong, Xiaohua Li, Shi Yu, Zhiyuan Liu, Yu Gu, Ge Yu
Section: 5.3 Effectiveness of Item Verbalization Methods
more to memorize some characteristics of users, such as the taste, preferred cuisines, and active area of users. Besides, the prompt-based modeling method (Prompt) outperforms the embedding-based method (Embed), which illustrates that pretrained language models have the ability to understand the user/item identifiers and establish relevance between users and items via identifiers. It further supports the motivation of TASTE, which fully uses the learned knowledge from pretrained language models to build sequential recommendation systems. Evaluation on Recommendation Behaviors. Finally, we explore the recommendation behaviors of TASTE using different item modeling methods. As shown in Table 7, three models, T5-ID, TASTE w/o ID, and TASTE, are compared. T5-ID randomly initializes item embeddings and directly predicts the item ids. TASTE w/o ID and TASTE employ a two-tower architecture [29] and encode items using attributes and identifiers & attributes, respectively. As shown in our evaluation results, T5-ID returns an average of 49.5% of popular products in the recommendation results of all datasets, showing that it faces the popularity bias problem during recommending items. TASTE alleviates the popularity bias by reducing on average 18.75% popular items in its recommendation results. It represents items using full texts and utilizes text matching to calibrate the popularity-oriented recommendation behavior of T5ID. TASTE demonstrates its effectiveness in recommending more appropriate and text-relevant items by achieving higher Bleu scores and Recall scores. Besides, compared with TASTE w/o ID, TASTE achieves higher Bleu and Dist scores with the help of item ids. It shows that the item ids can serve as a kind of prompt to provide additional matching signals beyond item attributes to better model the relevance between users and items.