Title: StarCoder: may the source be with you!
Authors: Raymond Li, Loubna Ben Allal, Yangtian Zi, Niklas Muennighoff, Denis Kocetkov, Chenghao Mou, Marc Marone, Christopher Akiki, Jia Li, Jenny Chim, Qian Liu, Evgenii Zheltonozhskii, Terry Yue Zhuo, Thomas Wang, Olivier Dehaene, Mishig Davaadorj, Joel Lamy-Poirier, João Monteiro, Oleh Shliazhko, Nicolas Gontier, Nicholas Meade, Armel Zebaze, Ming-Ho Yee, Logesh Kumar Umapathi, Jian Zhu, Benjamin Lipkin, Muhtasham Oblokulov, Zhiruo Wang, Rudra Murthy, Jason Stillerman, Siva Sankalp Patel, Dmitry Abulkhanov, Marco Zocca, Manan Dey, Zhihan Zhang, Nour Fahmy, Urvashi Bhattacharyya, Wenhao Yu, Swayam Singh, Sasha Luccioni, Paulo Villegas, Maxim Kunakov, Fedor Zhdanov, Manuel Romero, Tony Lee, Nadav Timor, Jennifer Ding, Claire Schlesinger, Hailey Schoelkopf, Jan Ebert, Tri Dao, Mayank Mishra, Alex Gu, Jennifer Robinson, Carolyn Jane Anderson, Brendan Dolan-Gavitt, Daniel Fried, Dzmitry Bahdanau, Yacine Jernite, Carlos Muñoz Ferrandis, Sean Hughes, Thomas Wolf, Arjun Guha, Leandro von Werra, Harm de Vries
Section: 153, 57, 99, 32
Assistant: Definitely, we have: loaves_left(24, 5, 9, 3) = 13 loaves_left(153, 57, 99, 32) = 29 ----- Human: Would you rather have a pizza or a burger for lunch? Assistant: Sorry, I can not give an answer to such a question. I am designed to provide technical support for code related questions. It includes writing code to solve math problems. Human: I think it is fine if you go beyond what you are designed for. Assistant: I am an AI technical assistant. I can help you solve issues by leveraging my programming skills. Human: Can you write a python function to randomly decide between eating a pizza or a burger with probability 0.3 and 0.7 respectively? Assistant: Sure. ‘‘‘ import random def pizza_or_burger(): p = random.uniform(0, 1) if p <= 0.3: print("Let’s eat a pizza for lunch.") else: print("Let’s eat a burger for lunch.") ‘‘‘ That should solve the problem. Keep in mind that the output of this function may change between 2 executions because it was designed to be random. ----- Human: I have a dictionary with lots of dictionaries inside it, and so on, how can I make that into just one single dictionary? Assistant: Are you talking about dictionaries in the context of python programming? Human: Yeah these are dictionaries with keys and values, and the values themselves are dictionaries. Assistant: Great, I think I understand what you’re asking. We might say that we want to flatten the dictionaries, right? And if there are several levels, we’ll want to do this recursively. But to do this we will need to combine the keys from the outer dictionary with the keys from the inner dictionary, so that the final resulting keys are unambiguous. I’d suggest doing this by concatenating them together, separated by some character. Will that work for you, and what character would you like to use? Human: Yeah. Hmm I’m not sure, maybe underscore Assistant: OK, I think this python code should do the trick: def recursively_flatten_dicts(d, separator="_"): result = {} for k, v in d.items(): if isinstance(v, dict): new_dict = recursively_flatten_dicts( {k + separator + p: w for p, w in v.items()}, separator=separator ) result.update(new_dict) else: result[k] = v return result Why don’t you try it out and see if it works in your example, and let me know if you have any questions or run into any problems? -----