Title: Monitoring lesion activity on primary teeth with CP‐OCT and SWIR reflectance imaging
Authors: Yihua Zhu
Section: DISCUSSION
studies and out of the 111 primary and permanent teeth recruited for the two clinical studies only 37 were active according to CP‐OCT imaging, 6 were sound and 69 were arrested and those 76 sites manifested no further change increase in severity over 6‐months while the other suspected active lesions either progressed in severity (n= 28) or became arrested (n= 7). Moreover, visual monitoring with ICDAS indicated no changes in any of the lesions over 6‐months for either study further confirming the low sensitivity of conventional visual monitoring. In this study, there was a significant increase of the lesion depth (Ld) and the integrated reflectivity (ΔR) over the 6‐month period suggesting that most of the lesions did not become arrested and actually progressed in severity. In vitro studies suggest that ΔR should decrease if all of the lesions become arrested and undergo major remineralization.8,9,33 As mineral is deposited into the lesion due to remineralization the overall reflectivity of the lesion decreases yielding a net decrease in ΔR. However, we observed TSL's in only 14 of the 42 lesions at 6‐months indicating that only 1/3 of the lesions underwent enough remineralization to appear arrested. Therefore, the increases in ΔR and Ld are consistent with the majority of lesions remaining active during the duration of the study. This was the first clinical study in which SWIR reflectance imaging was employed to assess lesion activity. Based on in vitro studies it was anticipated that (ΔI) the overall change in intensity would be significantly higher for active lesions versus arrested lesions.10,34,40,41 However, the time required for drying was much higher than encountered for in vitro studies and many of the active lesions did not sufficiently dry in 30 s.41 This influenced the ability to observe the full change in intensity for accurate calculation of (ΔI). For example, in Figure 4C the rise in intensity did not occur until after 20 s so it is unlikely that the ΔI calculated from that curve is reliable. The dehydration curves were also much noisier than expected making curve fitting difficult. These problems can be addressed in future studies by further increasing the air pressure and by further optimization of the air flow geometry in the probe to better penetrate the occlusal fits and fissures. The delay in the onset of the intensity change (DEL) appeared to be a better indicator of lesion activity than ΔI for this study. This onset delay (DEL) was ignored in early in vitro studies and was only recently discovered to be an