Title: Generating Images with Multimodal Language Models
Authors: Jing Yu Koh, Daniel Fried
Section: E Other Evaluations
text-to-image generation models. We report zero-shot FID scores [25] of our model, Stable Diffusion [49] v1.5 (which we use as our backbone image generator), and several other approaches in Tab. 8. For our generation results and SD results, we use a classifier-free guidance scaling factor of 3.0 and 250 DDIM inference steps. On MS-COCO, our approach achieves a worse FID score than SD (9.22 to 12.2). This is likely because this task does not benefit as much from the LLM backbone, which has not been trained on as many image captions as SD (which exclusively trains on caption-like data). These numbers will likely improve further by finetuning GILL on even more text data (including image captions), which will allow our model to align more closely to the input space of the SD image generator. E.4 Inference Speed One concern for deploying LLMs is the inference throughput and speed. We benchmark the inference performance of GILL on a single A6000 GPU. Generating text has the same throughput as a regular LM of the same size (i.e., that of OPT 6.7B). The main increase in inference time occurs when the model produces [IMG] tokens. For a batch size of 1, if the model decides to retrieve images, the additional inference overhead is minimal (less than 0.001s on average) as image retrieval is fast, requiring just a single matrix multiplication followed by a max operation. However, if GILL generates an [IMG] token, it takes 3.5s on average for the Stable Diffusion backbone to generate a corresponding image. Overall, GILL’s inference speed is bottlenecked by the frequency of image generation, which is dependent on the application domain. In the case of generating dialogue-like text, we observed that images are usually generated or retrieved once or twice in a natural conversation. Amortized over a long conversation, it does not lead to a significant increase compared to a text-only LLM, though exact numbers would depend on the application.