Title: Monitoring lesion activity on primary teeth with CP‐OCT and SWIR reflectance imaging
Authors: Yihua Zhu
Section: DISCUSSION
indicator of lesion activity.10,34,40,41 For active lesions there are exposed pores in the outer layer of the lesion, when those pores are filled with fluid they absorb the SWIR light lowering the reflectivity from the lesion. When the fluid is removed from the pores ow nloaded from https://onlinelibrary.w iley.com /doi/10.1002/lsm .23677 by U niversity O f C alifornia, San, W iley O nline L ibrary on [29/05/2023]. See the T erm s and C onditions (https://onlinelibrary.w iley.com /term s-and-conditions) on W iley O nline L ibrary for rules of use; O A articles are governed by the applicable C reative C om m ons L icense during drying the reflectivity rises. Arrested lesions have an outer highly mineralized TSL of low porosity with minimal fluid present between the lesion body and the surface so there is minimal delay before there is a rise in reflectivity during drying.41 It appears that this onset delay (DEL) is a good indicator of lesion activity that can be easily measured in vivo. It is desirable to be able to extract multiple indicators of lesion activity from the SWIR reflectivity versus time curves during drying as has been possible in in vitro studies where the curves were fit to extract additional information about the rate of increase in the reflectivity,41 not just DEL and ΔI as was done in this study and we plan on further development of the SWIR reflectance imaging handpiece for more rapid dehydration of the lesions. Both OCT and SWIR imaging were done in contact with the tooth surface to minimize motion artifacts. Even so, several scans had to be repeated due to excessive movement during scanning for both OCT and SWIR reflectance imaging. In the case of SWIR imaging many of the image frames had to be corrected due to slight movement during the 30 s. This study was not intended to be a clinical trial of fluoride varnish, therefore a non‐fluoride varnish control group was not used. Fluoride varnish was applied because it was the standard of care for patients of high caries risk and it was likely to increase the probability that more active lesions would undergo remineralization and become arrested.