Title: Kuki-Chin phonology: An overview
Authors: David R. Mortensen
Section: 6 Conclusion
It is difficult to give a satisfying description of the phonology of Kuki-Chin languages as a whole. A few languages have been described very well, but the best described languages have been concentrated in the Northeastern and Central groups. While new work is progressing with great alacrity regarding Southeastern, Southwestern, and Northwestern, much about KC phonology remains a mystery. With the available information, it is challenging to make hard and fast statements about all Kuki-Chin languages, and I have been therefore limited in this paper to discussing characteristics that are found in many of the better-documented languages in the group. I hope that this will be helpful to others embarking on the study of Kuki-Chin phonology. Despite the preliminary nature of these findings, a few interesting avenues for future research are apparent. First, it seems very likely that Kuki-Chin phonology will be of continued interest for work on comparative reconstruction, owing to the conservative properties of the languages relative to the rest of Tibeto-Burman. Additionally, the synchronic phonologies of these languages hold many interesting treasures from both a descriptive/typological and theoretical standpoint. They are relatively rich in alternations, by Southeast Asian standards, at least. The phonotactic restrictions across the subfamily are of considerable theoretical interest (Lotven et al. 2020), as are its little-documented vowel harmony patterns. Finally, the two prominent patterns of apophony (mutation) in Kuki-Chin languages make them interesting to students of the phonology-morphology interface. Himalayan Linguistics, Vol 22(1) 32 AB B R E VI A T IO N S 1 first person IRR irrealis 1A 1st person agent PL plural I Form I PNMLZ patient nominalizer II Form II SG singular BEN benefactive tr. transitive int. intransitive RE F E R EN C E S Bennett, J. Fraser. 2005. Reanalyzing Thai glottal codas: Probability, perception, and displaced contrast. Dallas: SIL International. Bedell, George; Mang, Kee Shein; Nawl, Roland Siang; and Suantak, Khawlsonkim. 2023. “The morphosyntax of verb stem alternation”. Himalayan Linguistics 22.1 Special Issue on Issues in South Central (Kuki-Chin) Linguistics, David Peterson (ed.): 202-242. (This volume). Blevins, Juliette. 2018. “Evolutionary phonology and the life cycle of voiceless sonorants”. In: Cristofaro, Sonia; and Zúñiga, Fernando (eds.), Typological hierarchies in synchrony and diachrony, 29-58. Amsterdam/Philadelphia: Benjamins. https://doi.org/10.1075/tsl.121.01ble Brown, Nathan. 1837. “Comparison of Indo-Chinese languages”. Journal of the Asiatic Society of Bengal 6.2: 1023–1038. Button, Christopher. 2011. Proto Northern Chin. Berkeley: Sino-Tibetan Etymological Dictionary and Thesaurus Project, University of California. [STEDT Monograph Series, Vol. 10] https://stedt.berkeley.edu/pubs_and_prods/STEDT_Monograph10_Proto-NorthernChin.pdf Chen, Qiguang. 1993. “Miaoyaoyu qianzhui (Miao-Yao prefixes)”. Minzu Yuwen 1993.1: 1–9. Chhangte, L. 1993.