Title: To Build Our Future, We Must Know Our Past: Contextualizing Paradigm Shifts in Natural Language Processing
Authors: Sireesh Gururaja, Amanda Bertsch, Clara Na, David Gray Widder, Emma Strubell
Section: A Details of Qualitative Methodologies
responses. (a) What do you consider to be your main/home/primary research community? (b) More specifically, what venues do you follow and/or publish in? (c) What subarea(s) or subfields are you most active in? (d) Is this different from what you have considered your main community at other points in your career? (Prompt: if so, what changed?) (e) What would you define as the start of your NLP research career? (e.g. start of PhD, research as an undergrad, etc). (Prompt: When was this?) 2. I’d like to hear your thoughts on what the field was like near the beginning of your career. (a) When you started in your field, what did people generally think were the most promising directions? (Prompt: do you agree?) (b) How do you interpret the term “promising”? (c) What do you think the research community prioritized when you started? (d) What was the scope of the work that your research group did? (e) What was your relationship to computing resources at the start of your career? (f) What did your software workflow look like when you first started doing research? (Prompt: What tools, frameworks, libraries did you use?) (g) Where did funding for your work come from? (Prompt: what were the major costs involved with your research?) Now, I’d like to compare this with the current state of the field. (a) What do you think others in your field would say are the most promising directions? (Prompt: do you agree?) (b) What do you think the research community prioritizes now? (c) What is the scope of the work that your research group does? (d) How do computing resources affect your group’s work now? (e) How does the software workflow look like for you or your students now? (f) What tools, frameworks, libraries do you or your students use? (g) Have these tools, frameworks, and libraries made an impact on your (or your students’) research? (h) What impacts do you think these tools, frameworks, and libraries have made on your commu- nity’s research? (i) Where does the funding for your work come from? (Prompt: what are the major costs involved in your research?) (j) When you or your students start a new project, how long on average do you expect it to take, from the start of work to a paper submission? (k) Has this changed over your career? (Prompt: what has led to this change?) Now I’d like to hear your thoughts on the changes you’ve observed in your career. (a) Are there paradigm shifts that you