Title: To Build Our Future, We Must Know Our Past: Contextualizing Paradigm Shifts in Natural Language Processing
Authors: Sireesh Gururaja, Amanda Bertsch, Clara Na, David Gray Widder, Emma Strubell
Section: B Detailed quantitative methodology
We begin with the ACL Anthology and focus on papers between 1980 and 2022. Using the SemanticScholar (S2) API (Wade, 2022), we obtain author and citation information of papers indexed by S2 (some venues, such as some workshops, and some Findings8 papers, are not indexed, leaving 77, 235 papers), with a focus on citations of papers identified by our participants as having been influential to the NLP community. We select from this set of influential papers to generate the bar plots for Figure 2. Figure 1 uses author publication information linked to the individual papers considered. We rely on S2ORC (Lo et al., 2020) for full-text PDF parses of a subset of these papers, which we use match for mentions of software toolkits identified by our participants as having been influential to the community, for Figure 3, as well as for mentions of influential techniques in the line plot of Figure 2. Note that quantifying mentions is noisy: framework/library names can be spelled in a variety of ways, and names like "Moses" are also used for authors in the ACL Anthology. For figure 3, we normalize by lowercasing all text, and using the most common normalized spelling, e.g. tensorflow, or huggingface. We estimate that this will overestimate the presence of Moses, due to its other usages. and underestimate the presence of Hugging Face, which is officially spelled “Hugging Face”, but much more often used as “HuggingFace”. Despite this, the incredible growth and popularity of Hugging Face relative to other frameworks is still prominently visible. We present an alternative view of data, similar to that seen in Figure 1, in Figure 4. Here, we define members of the community as authors with at least three papers total in *CL venues. Authors are counted as “leaving” the community the year after their last *CL publication. We only consider trends in authorship until 2020, as it is difficult to determine if authors who did not publish in the last few years have left the community indefinitely. 8As of October 2023, while some Findings papers, such as from ACL 2021 and EMNLP 2020, are automatically indexed by S2, Findings papers from some conferences such as EMNLP 2022 are not. While some of these papers (or versions of them) may still be indexed by S2 due to also being on ArXiv or a similar service, we do not include them in our set of papers.