Title: Observational signatures of Schwarzschild-MOG black holes in scalar–tensor–vector gravity: images of the accretion disk
Authors: Shiyang Hu, Chen Deng, Sen Guo, Xin Wu, Enwei Liang
Section: 3 Observational features of the accretion disk in Schwarzschild-MOG spacetime
determinant of the induced metric in the equatorial plane. Clearly, the emitted energy flux Fe is a function of the radius rs of the disk element since E , L , and Ω are obtained with the aid of Eqs. (13)–(15). Figure 8 presents the variation relationship between emitted energy flux and the disk element’s radius when the gravity coupling parameter takes different values. Here we have the Schwarzschild-MOG BH mass and accretion rate respectively as 106M and 10−12M /year, where M denotes the mass of Sun. It is found that for arbitrary parameter α, Fe grows from 0 at rms and reaches the peak rapidly, then exhibits a decaying behavior. One can also see that the maximum energy flux decreases with the increment of α, i.e., the maximum energy flux corresponding to α = 0.9 is only 40% of that corresponding to α = 0. This is because when the parameter α increases, the velocity of the accretion flow around the Schwarzschild-MOG BH becomes faster, causing the accretion disk to become hotter and its optical depth to become larger, which is not conducive to the escape of photons from the surface of the accretion disk. As we mentioned before, the observed energy flux Fo is significantly affected by the redshift factor and can be expressed as Fo = Fe g4 . (36) We take the same Schwarzschild-MOG BH mass and accretion rate as in Fig. 8 and explore the observed energy flux in the direct images of the accretion disk for various parameter α and inclinations, as intuitively shown in Fig. 9. In each panel, the intensity of the energy flux is presented with a continuous color map, as white is associated with the maximal flux intensity, while dark red corresponds to the minimum value. Evidently, an accumulation of brightness occurs on the left side of the image, and it becomes significant when the inclination angle gets larger. This is caused by the Doppler effect due to the rotation of the accretion disk. We can confirm that this brightness accumulation will disappear when the distant observer is at a face-on orientation. It is also found that the intensity of the observed energy flux decays with increasing α, i.e., the maximum values of Fo are 5.39 × 107 erg s−1 cm−2 in Panel (a), 3.78×107 erg s−1 cm−2 in Panel (b), and 2.18 × 107 erg s−1 cm−2 in Panel (c). There are two points that account for this attenuation trend: one is that the parameter α has a negative