Title: Research on the Training Path of Live E‐commerce Talents Oriented by Industry Development
Authors: Shouhui Xia, Xili Rao, Xin Wu
Section: 3. Literature Review of Live-broadcast E-commerce Talent Training
of training conditions. First, the number of professional training rooms in campus is insufficient, the main reason is that the training rooms and the training equipment cannot meet the needs of the training system, and the system. In order to further understand the training conditions of live streaming e-commerce in higher vocational colleges, 357 valid questionnaires were issued and collected to students in May 2022. According to the statistical results, 30.25% of the respondents said they had learning experience in live e-commerce courses, but only 3.92% of the respondents had practical experience in live e-commerce. The low proportion practice experience had a certain relationship with the lack of training conditions, and it was difficult to meet the needs of talent training. (4) Lack of complementarity between higher vocational teachers and industries. For higher vocational colleges, it takes time for teachers to contact the live streaming ecommerce industry for a short time, to master the knowledge system and apply it. Online marketing and live streaming ecommerce majors have been greatly added, and a large number of live streaming e-commerce courses have been included in the talent training programs of various majors in higher vocational colleges, forcing teachers to speed up the transformation, and the number of live streaming e-commerce teachers cannot effectively meet the teaching needs. In order to speed up the transformation, the phenomenon of learning and teaching is relatively common. Teachers in higher vocational colleges strengthen independent learning, participate in short-term social training, and actively supplement the knowledge and skills of live streaming ecommerce. However, due to the release of national vocational skills standards later than the development of the industry, the participating teachers have few systematic and standardized learning. For enterprises, due to the weak interest correlation, no labor cost and practical teaching resources, the industry tutor is not strongly associated with the substantive teaching of higher vocational colleges, which fails to meet the needs. Higher vocational colleges can learn and update knowledge and skills due to the heavy teaching and research tasks. There are some obstacles in the two-way circulation of teachers and industrial tutors in higher vocational colleges, which hinder the teaching quality of professional teaching.