Title: GET: a foundation model of transcription across human cell types
Authors: Xi Fu, Shentong Mo, Anqi Shao, Anouchka Laurent, Alejandro Buendia, Adolfo A. Ferrando, Alberto Ciccia, Yanyan Lan, Teresa Palomero, David M. Owens, Eric P. Xing, Raul Rabadan
Section: Methods
ATAC-seq Data processing Pseudobulk To get the chromatin accessibility score for each region, we used the scATAC-seq count table and cell annotation table from each studies. To group single cells into pseudobulk "cell types", we used the louvain clustering result from each study. The cell type annotation of each cluster is used to define the biological cell type. We empirically used cell count > 600 as a threshold to select cell clusters with enough sequencing depth. We have compiled a table of pseudobulk cell types used in the training process below: Cell-type-specific accessible region identification For the identification of cell-type-specific accessible regions, the peak calling results from the original studies of each dataset were followed to obtain a union set of peaks. Subsequently, to compile a list of accessible regions specific to each cell type, peaks with no counts were filtered out. In the context of the human fetal and adult chromatin accessibility atlas, we employed the peak set produced by Kai Zhang et al.1, incorporating the fetal chromatin accessibility atlas originally published by Silvia Domcke et al.2. We have also trained a version of fetal-only GET model using the original peak calling and cell type annotation from Silvia Domcke et al., resulting in comparable expression prediction and regulatory analysis performance. For the 10x multiome data, we used the provided peak fragment count matrix. For the K562 NEAT-seq and bulk chromatin accessibility data, a more permissive version of peaks was called using MACS23, and different logTPM cutoffs were applied to the resulting peak set to select accessible regions. This accessibility-based data augmentation enhances the diversity of input data and fine-tunes the GET model for data from a single cell type. The code for processing is publicly available in our Github repository at atac rna data processing. Accessibility features In our study, the chromatin accessibility score for a specific genomic region is defined by the count of fragments located within that region for a given cell type pseudobulk. To enhance the model’s generalizability, these counts are further normalized through the logTPM (Log Transcripts Per Million) procedure. Specifically, let t be the total fragment count in a pseudobulk, and ci be the fragment count in region i. Then, the accessibility score si is computed as: si = log10 ⇣ ci t +1 ⌘ , t = Â i ci For the majority of the regulatory analysis, the ’Without-ATAC’ version of the GET (Gene Expression Tracking) model is utilized to comprehensively evaluate the regulatory influences exerted by transcription factors. In both the training