Title: Understanding Masked Autoencoders via Hierarchical Latent Variable Models
Authors: Lingjing Kong, Martin Q. Ma, Guangyi Chen, Eric P. Xing, Yuejie Chi, Louis-Philippe Morency, Kun Zhang
Section: A. Proof for Theorem 1
i.e. (ĉ, ŝ1), does not depend on s2. Applying the same reasoning to hc,s2 , we can obtain that hc,s2 , i.e. (ĉ, ŝ2) does not depend on s1 on C × S. Thus, for (ĉ, ŝ1, ŝ2) ∈ C × S × S, we can observe that ĉ does not depend on s1 and s2, that is, ĉ = hc(c). Notice that in all procedures above, the roles of the true quantities (c, s1, s2, g, g1, g2) and the estimated quantities (ĉ, ŝ1, ŝ2, ĝ, ĝ1, ĝ2) are symmetric. Therefore, we can switch the two sets of quantities and derive the relation: for (c, s1, s2) ∈ (C × S × S), c does not depend on ŝ1 and ŝ2, that is, c = h′c(ĉ). In sum, we have shown that on (C × S × S), there is a one-toone mapping between c and ĉ. We now show that Theorem 2 follows directly from Theorem 3. Theorem 2. (Identifiability of c): For each mask m, given the dimensions (dc, dsm) the encoder function Emc(·) recovers all information of c located in Theorem 1, i.e., there exists a one-toone mapping h, s.t., h(c) = ĉ. Proof. We invoke Theorem 3 and establish the connection between the MAE training and the estimation model in Theorem 3. In particular, we show that under Assumption 2, any solution produced by the MAE objective satisfies the conditions in Theorem 3 and consequently is equipped with the identifiability guarantee. We establish the correspondence between the MAE configuration and the estimation models in Theorem 3: • v1 ← xm; • v2 ← xmc ; • ĝ1 ← Dm(·, ŝm); • ĝ2 ← g̃mc , where Emc(·) = [g̃−1mc(·)]1:dc . We can observe that the minimizer of MAE satisfies the conditions specified in Theorem 3. This is because for the optimal solution Emc of the MAE objective, we can always construct a g̃mc , which, together with Dm, matches the joint distribution pxm,xmc and shares ĉ, as stipulated in Theorem 3. Thus, as shown in Theorem 3, there exists a one-to-one mapping between the MAE estimate ĉ := Emc(xmc) and the true variable c, which concludes our proof.