Title: Research on the Training Path of Live E‐commerce Talents Oriented by Industry Development
Authors: Shouhui Xia, Xili Rao, Xin Wu
Section: 5. The Reform Path of Live-streaming E-commerce Talent Training in
Higher Vocational Colleges (1) Combine full-time and part-time talents to accelerate talent training and transportation. With majors, courses and associations as the carrier, we will accelerate the talent training in higher vocational colleges. Professional training: Relying on network marketing and live streaming ecommerce, formulate talent training programs and cultivate students 'professional skills and professional quality in an allround way, supplemented by humanistic quality training, to effectively improve students' professional ability and professional quality. Course training: live in the form of courses electric business teaching, has been more professional in higher vocational colleges, such as electronic commerce, mobile e-commerce, cross-border e-commerce, marketing, tourism management, finance and economics, information professional live electricity courses, add students live electricity special ability, meet the demand of social talent, improve students' employment ability. Community training: Whether the use of non-teaching time is effective or not affects the height and speed of students' growth to a large extent, and community learning effectively complements professional ability learning and practice. Establish a live broadcast e-commerce club-live broadcast college-entrepreneurship studio-employment and entrepreneurship student training model to promote talent training. Practical exercises such as short videos; select outstanding students from community activities to enter the live broadcast academy, and invite teachers from inside and outside the school to carry out training together; The studio encourages tutors from industrial colleges to join, such as the cooperation model between Alibaba Digital Business Industrial College and higher vocational colleges. (2) Promote learning through competition and improve students' comprehensive quality. Discipline competition effectively promotes the mastery and application of students' professional knowledge and skills, and can well improve their professional quality, including speech ability, field control ability, coordination ability, psychological pressure resistance ability, etc. At present, higher vocational colleges participate in many types of discipline competitions, and some colleges make grades according to the scientific, normative or importance of competitions, such as first-class competition, second class competition or key competition items, and general competition items. Regardless of whether the competition level is divided or not, the essence of discipline competition is always for talent training, quality improvement, and providing high-quality talents for the industry. At present, the competitions related to live streaming e-commerce mainly include "Internet +" College Students 'Innovation and Entrepreneurship Competition, National College Students' Ecommerce Innovation and Creative Entrepreneurship Competition and other competitions. Due to the popularization of live streaming e-commerce, most innovation and entrepreneurship competitions can be included in the relevant knowledge and skills of live streaming e-commerce. The implementation paths of discipline competition in higher vocational colleges are different, which include: