Title: Contextualized Networks Reveal Heterogeneous Transcriptomic Regulation in Tumors at Sample-Specific Resolution
Authors: Caleb N. Ellington, Benjamin J. Lengerich, Thomas B.K. Watkins, Jiekun Yang, Manolis Kellis, Eric P. Xing
Section: 
cluster analysis on clinical and molecular data, including cancer-driving SNVs, SCNAs, DNA methy-39 lation, mitochondrial DNA, RNA-seq, miRNA, protein abundance arrays, histology images, patient demographics,40 and/or immunological data, and further identifies prognostic biomarkers as features that differentiate these clusters41 [1–23]. While clusters can be analyzed in terms of feature stratification, clustering ignores the latent feature interac-42 tions and hierarchical feature relationships that define biological systems. Biomarkers identified by cluster analysis43 have no mechanistic interpretation, and require further experimentation to validate their role in tumorigenesis and44 1https://www.cancer.gov/tcga 2 tumor pathology. Consequently, the identification of biomarkers using somatic DNA alterations or gene expression45 patterns has proved challenging [24], but biological dogma and notable exceptions (e.g. HER2 amplification in breast46 cancer) motivate us to find a systematic way to search for differentiating regulatory factors that reflect cellular states47 and foreshadow cellular responses to treatments. In our view, biomarker discovery should directly inform the devel-48 opment of novel treatments, revealing molecular features that relate to the robustness or fragility of molecular systems49 in individual tumors. Addressing the shortcomings of cluster analysis, we focus on three questions: (1) how do we50 model the mechanisms of molecular interactions as it relates to tumorigenesis and treatment efficacy, (2) how do we51 identify prognostic biomarkers for rare diseases and outlier patients that are too sparsely sampled to cluster, and (3)52 how can we quantify the heterogeneity of tumor pathology, which is widely acknowledged but poorly understood, and53 encode or represent the myriad of phenotypic, molecular, and environmental factors driving this heterogeneity from54 observational data alone?55 Toward representing interactions, gene regulatory networks (GRNs) represent the functional circuitry within cells56 that simultaneously respond to biomolecular stimulus and drive tumorigenesis. We intuit that many interactions be-57 tween disparate biomolecular features can be identified at the cellular level through transcriptomic regulation, both58 directly and indirectly. Further, tumor-specific GRNs capture regulatory redundancy and fragility in individual can-59 cers, whereby multi-omic features relate to GRN structure and organization, and GRN organization reveals the func-60 tional mechanisms of tumor pathology and the robustness of therapeutic targets. Single-cell and multi-omic profiling61 have advanced the potential for studying highly context-specific regulatory relationships in GRNs, but computational62 methods of inferring GRNs continue to rely on partitioning samples into homogeneous sets of samples [25–28]. As63 such, existing methods for high-resolution network inference either impose strong biological priors based on known64 transcription factor-gene regulation [29], or apply a sample-left-out approach that lacks statistical power [30, 31].65 Partition-based modeling is insufficient to capture high-resolution or continuously rewiring GRNs, a problem for