Title: POLAR-2, the next generation of GRB polarization detector
Authors: Nicolas Produit, Merlin Kole, Xin wu, Nicolas De Angelis, Hancheng Li, Dominik Rybka, Agnieszka Pollo, Slawomir Mianowski, Jochen Greiner, Shuang-Nan Zhang
Section: 4. Performance
for a 40 keV beam as measured at ESRF. Right: The same as on the left but with the incoming beam polarized perpendicular. The 2 first fit parameters correspond to the mean and the 𝑀100 (as a fraction). The POLAR-2 Monte-Carlo simulations are now being updated using the calibration data from ESRF. The preliminary simulations were already used to predict the scientific performance of POLAR-2. The Minimal Detectable Polarization (the lowest level of intrinsic polarization which can be distinguished from being unpolarized) is shown as a function of the GRB fluence for POLAR2 on the left in figure 6). The MDP is compared here with the sensitivity of its predecessor POLAR and that of GAP (the first dedicated GRB polarimeter launched in 2010). When combining this with existing GRB catalogs and known orbital elements of the spacecraft, one can predict the number of P o S ( I C R C 2 0 2 3 ) 5 5 0 Figure 6: Left: The Minimal Detectable Polarization (in log-scale) as a function of the GRB brightness, for 1 seconds GRBs, for POLAR-2, POLAR and GAP. The brightness of the extremely weak GRB 170817A is shown as a reference. Taken from [5]. Right: The number of GRBs for which a significant polarization measurement can be performed per year as a function of their intrinsic polarization. The significance of the measurement is shown for various significance levels. Taken from [6]. GRBs (see right side of fig. 6) for which a signicicant polarization detection can be performed, as a function of the instrinsic GRB polarization, per year. Apart from polarimetry, POLAR-2 will be able to perform real-time analysis of the incoming angle of GRB, and therefore its location on the sky, as well as their spectrum through access to a GPU on the space station (see HAGRID poster and paper [PGA1-06] in this conference). As uncertainties on the spectrum and location induce systematic errors, this allows POLAR-2 to completely independently measure the linear polarization for all observed GRBs. In addition, we are investigating the possibility of POLAR-2 to send alerts with localization and spectral info to the ground within 2 minutes of the onset of the GRB. The fast alert system, combined with the very large effective area will allow POLAR-2 to play an important role in multi-messenger astrophysics.