Title: Analysis of Individual Cosmic-Ray Proton and Helium Fluxes towards PeV Energies with DAMPE
Authors: Arshia Ruina, Paul Coppin, Andrii Kotenko, Peng-Xiong Ma, Mikhail Stolpovskiy, Andrii Tykhonov
Section: 3. The Proton and Helium Analyses
implying low probability of inelastic interactions, a normalized charge estimate from STK is taken for the proton analysis, while the geometric average of PSD and STK charge estimates is used for the helium analysis. For a “bad” value, it equals to charge estimate from PSD only. Protons have two major sources of background: electrons and helium. Hadronic and electromagnetic showers are very different in nature and significantly differ in lateral and longitudinal profiles, so we define a variable that encapsulates these differences to separate protons from electrons. Residual electron background is negligible. Further, we use a fixed window cut on the combined charge to remove the helium background. We manage to keep background smaller than 2% up to 100TeV. P o S ( I C R C 2 0 2 3 ) 1 7 0 For the helium analysis, protons are the dominant background. As such, an additional selection criterium is imposed to reject the proton background by requiring that the average signal from the first two hits in the STK be larger than 100 ADC (the proton signal lies at around 60 ADC). Furthermore, to ensure a consistency in the charges measured by the two orthogonal layers of the PSD, it is also required that the absolute value of the charge difference between the two be <1. The helium signal region is defined as energy-dependent windows around the helium peaks in each energy interval as shown by the dashed vertical lines in figure 2. Figure 2: Proton analysis: Template fits to the combined charge distributions in three deposit energy intervals. (a) (b) (c) Figure 3: Helium analysis: Template fits to the combined charge distributions, after the application of the selection cuts (incl. proton rejection), in various deposit-energy intervals. Acceptance and Unfolding. The effective acceptance, 𝐴eff, is computed as 𝐴eff,𝑖 = 𝐴gen × 𝑁pass,𝑖 𝑁gen,𝑖 for the 𝑖-th interval in incident energy, where, 𝐴gen is the geometrical factor of the MC event generator sphere and 𝑁pass,𝑖 is the number of events in MC data that passed the selection cuts and 𝑁gen,𝑖 are the total number of MC events generated. The final effective acceptances for the proton and helium flux measurements are shown in figures 4. The slight wiggles in the helium acceptance are caused by the track selections and are currently under investigation. Following [32], an unfolding procedure is employed to convert the measured energy of the particles into their kinetic (or incident) energy. P o S ( I C R C 2 0 2 3 ) 1 7 0