Title: Contextualized Networks Reveal Heterogeneous Transcriptomic Regulation in Tumors at Sample-Specific Resolution
Authors: Caleb N. Ellington, Benjamin J. Lengerich, Thomas B.K. Watkins, Jiekun Yang, Manolis Kellis, Eric P. Xing
Section: 
Contextualized Networks Reveal Heterogeneous Transcriptomic1 Regulation in Tumors at Sample-Specific Resolution2 Caleb N. Ellington*1, Benjamin J. Lengerich2,3, Thomas B.K. Watkins4, Jiekun Yang2,3, Hanxi3 Xiao5, Manolis Kellis†2,3, and Eric P. Xing†1,6,74 1Carnegie Mellon University5 2Massachusetts Institute of Technology6 3Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard7 4Cancer Institute, University College London8 5University of Pittsburgh9 6Petuum, Inc10 7Mohamed bin Zayed University of Artificial Intelligence11 December 1, 202312 Abstract13 Cancers are shaped by somatic mutations, microenvironment, and patient background, each altering gene ex-14 pression and regulation in complex ways, resulting in heterogeneous cellular states and dynamics. Inferring gene15 regulatory network (GRN) models from expression data can help characterize this regulation-driven heterogeneity,16 but network inference requires many statistical samples, traditionally limiting GRNs to cluster-level analyses that17 ignore intra-cluster heterogeneity. We propose to move beyond cluster-based analyses by using contextualized learn-18 ing, a multi-task learning paradigm which allows us to infer sample-specific models using phenotypic, molecular,19 and environmental information pertinent to the model, encoded as the model’s "context" to be conditioned on. We20 unify three network model classes (Correlation, Markov, Neighborhood) and estimate context-specific GRNs for21 7997 tumors across 25 tumor types, with each network contextualized by copy number and driver mutation profiles,22 tumor microenvironment, and patient demographics. Contextualized GRNs provide a structured view of expression23 dynamics at sample-specific resolution, which reveal co-expression modules in correlation networks (CNs), as well24 as cliques and independent regulatory elements in Markov Networks (MNs) and Neighborhood Regression Networks25 (NNs). Our generative modeling approach allows us to predict GRNs for unseen tumor types based on a pan-cancer26 model of how somatic mutations affect gene regulation. Finally, contextualized networks enable GRN-based preci-27 sion oncology, explaining known biomarkers in terms of network-mediated effects, and leading to novel subtypings28 for thyroid, brain, and gastrointestinal tumors that improve survival prognosis.29 Introduction30 Tumors are heterogeneous, developing through clonal evolution that accumulates mutations, including cancer-driving31 single-nucleotide variants (SNVs) and somatic copy number alterations (SCNAs). In addition to tumor cell intrinsic32 changes, tumors develop in and are shaped by a microenvironment that includes immune cells, the extracellular ma-33 trix, blood vessels and surrounding cells. This extensive heterogeneity necessitates hetereogeneous treatments targeted34 *cellingt@cs.cmu.edu †Corresponding Authors: eric.xing@mbzuai.ac.ae, manoli@mit.edu 1 to individual patients. However, estimating treatment effects and patient prognosis at patient-specific resolution im-35 plies an n-of-1 approach to treatment that is technically and temporally infeasible. Instead, methods have historically36 sought to identify prognostic biomarkers that stratify patients into tumor subtype cohorts, and predictive biomarkers37 that identify patients who generally respond to treatment. The Cancer Genome Atlas1 (TCGA) derives prognostic38 subtypes via