Title: Research on the Training Path of Live E‐commerce Talents Oriented by Industry Development
Authors: Shouhui Xia, Xili Rao, Xin Wu
Section: 5. The Reform Path of Live-streaming E-commerce Talent Training in
first, skill training teams, chief instructors, backbone teachers and daily competition training; second, special funds for competition, focus on key projects and invest special funds to support projects and improve the quality and effect of competition training; third, teacher incentive policies to encourage or promote professional and technical positions, if the instructors in international or national competitions are directly promoted to the first level. Higher vocational colleges attach great importance to discipline competitions, and encourage teachers to participate in or guide students to participate in competitions from multiple perspectives such as professional and technical position evaluation and teaching performance assessment. Due to the rise and popularity of live e-commerce, live ecommerce has become the basic ability that students should have in competition and work. Through the discipline competition, students constantly improve their professional ability and professional quality under the guidance and training of teachers, and are more popular with employers. At the same time, teachers can also get synchronous growth, the school wins honors, and achieve multi-win results. (3) Integration of industry and education to improve students' entrepreneurial ability of live streaming ecommerce. Promoting mass entrepreneurship and innovation is an important support for the further implementation of the innovation-driven development strategy. College students are the new force for mass entrepreneurship and innovation, and it is of great significance to support college students in innovation and entrepreneurship. To improve the professional ability and professional quality of live streaming e-commerce through entrepreneurship education and real project entrepreneurship, promote the all-round development of college students, and realize higher quality entrepreneurship and employment of college students. The Ministry of Education in 2022 work point, points out that the implementation of "employment entrepreneurship promotion action", improve the employment entrepreneurship promotion mechanism, promote employment entrepreneurship work mass transfer efficiency, promote employment and enrollment training linkage reform, the implementation of supply and demand docking employment education project, and released on April 6,2022, the Ministry of Education college students about the first phase of supply and demand docking employment education project list notice, in the form of project support state, leading enterprises and depth cooperation of colleges and universities, and education. The joint industry and universities can effectively make up for the shortcomings of talent training, such as the supply chain system, real products, live broadcast operation account, and practical guidance of live streaming e-commerce enterprises, which can effectively complement the training of live streaming e-commerce ability of students in higher vocational colleges. Enterprises and higher vocational colleges cooperate to establish the operation mechanism of "college mentor +