Title: Identification of Nonlinear Latent Hierarchical Models
Authors: Lingjing Kong, Biwei Huang, Feng Xie, Eric Xing, Yuejie Chi, Kun Zhang
Section: B.3 Proof for Theorem 3.5
will certainly contain descendants of both z and z′. Consequently, ẑtest will be equivalent to the supernode z′′ and predicts it perfectly at Step 14. In this case, neither z and z′ will be updated into A. If only one of z and z′ has no pure children in A, then neither will be updated into A due to Step 9. Without loss of generality, we assume that z′ does not have any active pure children, whereas z does. Then, there will be no estimated z′ in the values of P, but there will be estimated z and (z, z′). As a results, Step 9 will prevent z and z′ from updated to A. If both z and z′ have active pure children, then there will be a pair (Z,H) in JointP such that Z = {z, z′} and H contains all their active children. As H does not contain all the children of z and z′, the A \H will contain descendants of at least one of z and z′. Then ẑtest will contain all information of at least one of z and z′ and predicts it perfectly at Step 16, which aborts the update of z and z′. Therefore, no updates will happen in this case. As each of the newly estimated variables in the values of JointP is a one-to-one mapping to a distinct variable in Z, the iteration preserves Condition B.1-i. For Condition B.1-ii, we can observe that if z is updated into A at this iteration, all its children would be in A at the beginning of this iteration and get removed at Step 16. Therefore, the update would not introduce directed paths to A. Condition B.1-iii holds for the same reason: the newly introduced variables in the active set A at the end of the iteration separate their children in the active set A at the beginning of the iteration and all undiscovered latent variables. So far, by induction, we have shown that Condition B.1-iii, Condition B.1-ii, and Condition B.1-iii hold at the end of each iteration. Given the analysis above, at each iteration, we update variables whenever all their children and their coparents’ children are active, i.e., Case B.2-i and Case B.2-iii, and the causal relations between the parents and the children are encoded in JointP. We further argue that at every iteration, there exists at least one undiscovered latent variable that has all its children in A. We focus on the trimmed graph of ZA and A, where ZA refers to all