Title: GET: a foundation model of transcription across human cell types
Authors: Xi Fu, Shentong Mo, Anqi Shao, Anouchka Laurent, Alejandro Buendia, Adolfo A. Ferrando, Alberto Ciccia, Yanyan Lan, Teresa Palomero, David M. Owens, Eric P. Xing, Raul Rabadan
Section: Methods
known DNA-binding domains can be easily identified using high pLDDT regions plus high ratio of positive charged residues. More specifically, we first computed smoothed pLDDT using a 10 aa moving-average kernel and then normalize the score by dividing the max. After that, any region that has a smoothed pLDDT score less than 0.6 is defined as a low pLDDT region. If two low pLDDT regions are close (<30 aa) they will be merged as one. Any region that is not a low pLDDT region will be labeled as a high-pLDDT region. Multimer structure prediction LocalColabFold and ColabFold is used to predict multimer structure with AlphaFold Multimer v2.3 model. For homodimer prediction, we used all 5 models with 3 recycles. For our large scale interaction screening, we used model 3 and 3 recycles for each prediction. Predicted aligned error (PAE) and predicted LDDT were stored for downstream analysis. pDockQ were calculated following code from FoldDock18. For the large score interaction screening, we performed exhaustive multimer prediction between all possible low/highpLDDT segment pairs of the two protein in a pair. We then compare the new pLDDT of each segment in the multimer structure with their original pLDDT in the monomer or homodimer structure. If a segment showing higher Molecular dynamics simulation The initial configuration was prepared from the Alphafold predicted PDB file. The Amber99SB-dispersion (a99SBdisp) force field was employed for system parameterization. A cubic simulation box was defined with a box size of 1 nm. Subsequently, the system was solvated using the TIP4P water model through the solvate module. To neutralize the system and generate physiological ion concentrations, sodium (Na+) and chloride (Cl-) ions were added using the genion module. The energy minimization terminates upon reaching a maximum force below 1000.0 kJ/mol/nm. Each minimization iteration utilizes a step size of 0.01 and is configured to run for a maximum of 50,000 steps. The system was then equilibrated in two steps: first in the NVT (Constant Number, Volume, Temperature) ensemble and then in the NPT (Constant Number, Pressure, Temperature) ensemble for 100 ps of simulation time. A 100-ns production run was then performed and trajectories and energy profiles were stored for subsequent analysis. All configs of these are avaliable at the Proscope repo. Structure visualization ChimeraX was used to visualize the predicted structures. VMD were used to generate the movie of molecular dynamics simulation trajectory. Biological experiments Cell Culture HeLa cells were purchased from ATCC (CCL-2). HeLa cells were cultured in DMEM (Gibco, 11965) supplemented with 10% defined FBS (HyClone, SH30070), at 37°C/