Title: Contextualized Networks Reveal Heterogeneous Transcriptomic Regulation in Tumors at Sample-Specific Resolution
Authors: Caleb N. Ellington, Benjamin J. Lengerich, Thomas B.K. Watkins, Jiekun Yang, Manolis Kellis, Eric P. Xing
Section: 
pre-66 cision oncology because some types of cancer neither form discrete clusters [32] nor cluster by tissue of origin [33].67 More generally, the exponential increase of data set complexity, heterogeneity, and size, has motivated the need for68 sample-specific inference in many application areas [34–38]. Contextualized modeling [39] addresses this by repre-69 senting the heterogeneity in data as driven by sample-specific models, and explaining variation among sample-specific70 models in terms of sample context encodings. These contexts can be any information that may explain heterogeneity71 in the data (e.g. age, genotype, medical images, environmental factors). More traditionally, context-driven hetero-72 geneity might be controlled by performing probabilistic inference on context-specific data sets, but this fails to scale73 to high-dimensional and continuously-varying contexts, common in biomedical data, where context data splits have74 as few as one sample and most context conditions are missing entirely. The simplest and most classic version of75 the contextualization paradigm are varying-coefficient models [40], which account for the effects of a univariate and76 continuously-varying context on a linear model’s parameters.77 Modern contextualized models, proposed in [41] and generalized in [39], are a combination of statistical modeling78 and deep learning, where context encoders are typically neural networks that can utilize any multi-modal contextual79 information. This framework also introduces the concept of model archetypes (Figure 1d), whereby all sample-specific80 models are spanned by the set of model archetypes, constraining and explaining their variation through the context81 encoding which parameterizes this space (See Methods). Thus, these archetypes, also learned from data, link the82 heterogeneity of sample-specific models to variation in the context encoding and enable sharing information between83 sample-specific model inference tasks. Many notable works on heterogeneous linear effects use this framework [41–84 46], but contextualized models have yet to be extended to the more general graphical modeling regime.85 To infer tumor-specific GRNs that account for patient-to-patient heterogeneity, we propose to reframe GRN in-86 ference within the contextualized modeling paradigm, thereby sharing information among tumor-specific inference87 tasks by relating these tasks through their clinical and molecular contexts. By recasting networks as the output of a88 learnable function, our approach shares statistical power between samples while also permitting fine-grained varia-89 tion to capture the complexity of sample-specific contexts such as tissue-of-origin, somatic mutation landscape, tumor90 microenvironment and clinical measurements. We formulate three types of GRNs (Markov, Neighborhood, and Cor-91 relation networks) under this paradigm, and estimate sample-specific GRNs which enable sample-specific analyses of92 latent regulatory processes. By applying this computational framework to over 7000 samples, we find that contextu-93 alized networks improve prediction of