Title: Observational signatures of Schwarzschild-MOG black holes in scalar–tensor–vector gravity: images of the accretion disk
Authors: Shiyang Hu, Chen Deng, Sen Guo, Xin Wu, Enwei Liang
Section: 3 Observational features of the accretion disk in Schwarzschild-MOG spacetime
impact on the radiation energy flux Fe; another is that the gravitational effects of the SchwarzschildMOG BH are enhanced for a larger α, making it difficult for light rays to evade the absorption of the BH. Figure 9 also presents the fact that for a positive parameter α, the Schwarzschild-MOG BH appears darker than the Schwarzschild BH, but its inner shadow is visibly larger. In order to compare the images of Schwarzschild-MOG BHs with those of RN BHs, we simulated the optical appearance of the RN BH surrounded by a thin accretion disk and displayed the results in Fig. 10. It is shown that the inner shadow of RN BH shrinks as the charge Q increases, while the luminosity increases significantly. By combining the results of Figs. 9 and 10, we point out that for fixed observational angle, BH mass, and accretion rate, the Schwarzschild-MOG BH exhibits the largest inner shadow and the lowest brightness, whereas the RN BH shows the smallest inner shadow and the largest luminosity. In comparison, the size and luminosity of the Schwarzschild BH fall in between those of the other two BHs. Figure 11 demonstrates the distribution of observed flux along the x-axis of the observation screen for the Schwarzschild-MOG BH (red line), Schwarzschild BH (green line), and the RN BH (black line). These results not only further confirm the above statement, but also provide a robust criterion for distinguishing between the three types of BHs. Next, we investigate the complete observable images with respect to the energy flux of the accretion disk under different parameter α and inclination ω, as demonstrated in Fig. 12. These images are composed of the superposition of direct and secondary images. It is found that the apparent energy flux Fo both in the direct and secondary image decreases with the increases of α. Another signature of the complete images is the ring structure shown in the center of the photo, which is contributed by the secondary image and expands as α increases. These rings are closely related to the photon ring and can serve as the fingerprint of spacetime geometry. Therefore, one can use this critical ring to identify the Schwarzschild-MOG BHs and constrain the gravitational coupling parameter α. Well, it is rational to question whether it is possible to adjust the mass of a Schwarzschild BH to mimic a Schwarzschild-MOG BH. To address this inquiry, we simulate the apparent images of the Schwarzschild BH with mass 1.732×106M , and the Schwarzschild-MOG BH with mass 106M , as depicted