Title: Analysis of Individual Cosmic-Ray Proton and Helium Fluxes towards PeV Energies with DAMPE
Authors: Arshia Ruina, Paul Coppin, Andrii Kotenko, Peng-Xiong Ma, Mikhail Stolpovskiy, Andrii Tykhonov
Section: 3. The Proton and Helium Analyses
not on the edges. Simulations. Monte Carlo (MC) simulated data are also used to evaluate the performance of the analysis. For both CR flux measurements, 0.5 billion helium and 11 billion proton events are simulated in the energy range 10 GeV to 1 PeV. The FTFP-BERT (FriTioF-BERTini cascade) model for hadronic interactions provided by the GEANT Toolkit version 4.10.5 [18–20] was used. CRMC-Geant4 interface [21, 22] was used to describe interactions with EPOSLHC model at very high energies, which better describes particle interactions in this energy regime. Also, Monte Carlo samples using FLUKA were produced to estimate hadronic interaction simulation uncertainty. All simulated events are reconstructed and the triggering and pre-selection cuts applied are identical to those on the flight data. Track selection. A Convolutional Neural Network (CNN)-based model [16] predicts the particle track direction and its closest hits in the STK layers. The requirements imposed on this track are (a) Fiducial containment: the reconstructed track direction from BGO calorimeter should pass through the top and bottom layers of the calorimeter and (b) Match with PSD hit: the reconstructed track direction from the STK should coincide with at least one hit in the PSD. Charge Selection and Background Subtraction. First, a set of calibrations and corrections are made to the signals from both the sub-detectors [23–31]. For the MC data to better match the flight, a smearing correction is introduced for the PSD and the STK signals. Furthermore, the energy measured from the BGO calorimeter is corrected for saturation effects using a new CNN-based algorithm [15]. For both flux measurements, the particle charge information from both, the PSD as well as the STK are used. The PSD charge is defined as an average over non-zero and consistent signals from the 4 sublayers in the PSD. For the STK, an average signal value is defined by starting from the first STK layer, progressively taking the average over non-zero signals, as long as the signal of the next layer is consistent with the previous average, and stopping the procedure when more than one inconsistent signals are encountered. For the separation of proton and helium from other particles, we define a so-called “combined” charge and for each analysis we use a slightly different definition. The combined charge is calculated by providing different charge estimates depending on the event’s vertex probability, which is the classifier’s prediction from [16], that gives the probability of inelastic interactions taking place within the PSD or before the primary particle enters the STK. When vertex has a “good” value,