Title: Probing hadronic cross sections in the TeV - PeV regime with DAMPE through machine learning techniques
Authors: Paul Coppina, Andrii Tykhonov, Andrii Kotenko, Arshia Ruina, Paul Coppin
Section: 4. Analysis
parameters, the requirement is made that the track of the primary particle must be fiducially contained with the PSD, STK, and BGO. Simulation. To evaluate the performance of the analysis, the passage of proton and helium events through the detector is simulated with both Geant4 (version 4.10.5) and FLUKA (version 2011.2X.7). In both frameworks, primary particles are sampled in a half-sphere around the detector5 with an ğ‘‘ğ‘/ğ‘‘ğ¸ âˆ ğ¸âˆ’1 spectrum. Events are then weighted to Î¦ âˆ ğ¸âˆ’2.65 to resemble the CR proton and helium spectrum to first order. All simulated events are reconstructed and subjected to the same pre-cuts as data events. Event selection. Proton and helium ions are selected based on the charge they deposit in the STK detector6. Deposited charges are corrected for the angle of incidence of the primary particle, and the position of impact on the silicon strips [22]. As STK consists of 12 consecutive planes, there are up to 12 charges measured per event. To combine these into a unified STK charge, we take the median of all non-zero charges7. Only events with a robust median are selected by requiring that at least 6 layers have a charge that deviates less than 0.3 of the median. The distribution of all data events that pass the MIP trigger, and those that satisfy our pre- and STK-charge selection are shown by the black and blue line in Fig.3, respectively. The contribution of proton and helium particles is clearly visible as the first and second peak. A charge window is then applied (red bands) to extract proton and helium ions. Simulations of Geant4 and FLUKA shows that the contamination of proton to helium is less than 0.2% (and vice versa); while keeping & 85% of signal events. Vertex prediction. Given the selected sample of proton and helium events, we derive the ion-BGO cross section based on the fraction of ions that interact per layer of BGO material. For a 5As our analysis selects vertical events, Earth shielding implies that only down-going particles need to be simulated. 6Previous studies [20, 21] have shown that simulated proton and helium events generally overestimate the charge deposited in the PSD. This excess is observed for both Geant4 and FLUKA, and thought to be due to the mismodelling of backscattered particles. Due to this effect, we found that a selection based on the PSD signal causes the depth at which ions inelastically interact to be biased between data and MC. For this reason, PSD data is not used in our analysis. 7A