Title: GET: a foundation model of transcription across human cell types
Authors: Xi Fu, Shentong Mo, Anqi Shao, Anouchka Laurent, Alejandro Buendia, Adolfo A. Ferrando, Alberto Ciccia, Yanyan Lan, Teresa Palomero, David M. Owens, Eric P. Xing, Raul Rabadan
Section: Methods
comuputational efficiency. For the cell type agnostic settings, all genes with their promoter overlaps with a open chromatin peaks from all cell types are involved in the correlation calculation. Causal discovery was performed on the gene-by-motif matrix using LiNGAM15. For the cell type agnostic settings, 50,000 genes were randomly sampled from all cell types, the resulting matrix were subjected to LiNGAM algorithm implemented in the Causal Discovery Toolbox python package. To benchmark the predicted causal edges in the cell type agnostic setting, we downloaded known physical interaction subnetwork from STRING V11 database16 and kept interactions with a combined score larger than 400 as the ground truth label. Since the pairs predicted by GET is on motif cluster level, we mapped the physical interactions between TFs onto the motif clusters based on the motif cluster annotation. The resulting motif-motif physical interaction network were then compared with our prediction to calculate the precision. We also downloaded and compiled all significant interactions determined by mass spectroscopy from the Human Transcription Factor protein interaction network17 and mapped them also to motif-motif interactions for comparison. For our TF interaction database, we performed the LiNGAM analysis using cell-type-specific gene-by-motif table. Interactions with top 5% absolute effect size are retained in the final database. For each interaction, we performed structural analysis between the two TFs with highest expression in the corresponding cell types. Structural analysis Alphafold benchmark on intra-family binder prediction We classify a TF as a intra-family binder if any of its member TFs have a known physical interaction annotated in STRING V11 database. Based on the hypothesis that if a TF can bind as a heterodimer, due to sequence and structure similarity they should also have the potential of binding as a homodimer, although the dimerization affinity might be different. We thus used AlphaFold to predict the ’hypothetical homodimer structure’ of all known TFs, and try to predict whether a TF could be a intra-family binder based on various AlphaFold-based metrics. Among several different Alphafold-based metrics, including mean_plddt (average predicted Local Distance Difference Test score across all residues), pAE (predicted Aligned Error across all inter-chain interactions), pDockQ (predicted DockQ metric using interface pLDDT), and pDockQ ⇥ pAE. We found that pDockQ⇥ pAE led to the best AUROC (0.69) and AUPR (0.41) when classifying intrafamily binder TFs. 6/8 Protein sequence segmentation pLDDT from Alphafold is a reliable protein domain caller due to its accurate structure prediction performance. We segment each TF protein sequence to low and high pLDDT regions. Empirically, we found that 80% (recall) of