Title: GET: a foundation model of transcription across human cell types
Authors: Xi Fu, Shentong Mo, Anqi Shao, Anouchka Laurent, Alejandro Buendia, Adolfo A. Ferrando, Alberto Ciccia, Yanyan Lan, Teresa Palomero, David M. Owens, Eric P. Xing, Raul Rabadan
Section: Methods
to different library constructing and sequencing method; and 4. biological differences Due to these biases, it’s hard to directly apply a model trained on one dataset to a new platform without finetuning. Thus, for a new dataset with multiple cell type avaliable, we took a leave-out cell type approach of finetuning. For a dataset of sorted cell types where only one cell type is avaliable, we used leave-out chromosome training. LentiMPRA zeroshot prediction The experimental procedure involves designing a library of lentivirus vector which contains both desired sequence elements and a minipromoter; then the vector will be randomly inserted on the genome through viral infection; the regulatory activity is then measure through sequencing and counting the log copy number of transcribed RNAs and integrated DNA copies. To 3/8 simulate this approach using GET, we first collect the sequence element library and constructed the vector sequence with mini promoter. We then follows the same data preprocessing procedure to get the motif score of the inserted elements. For each element, we perform ’in silico insertion’ by sum up its motif score with a existing region on the genome. The +/- 100 regions centered around the insertion region where then used as a input sample for GET to make expression prediction. The mean predicted expression (log10 T PM were multiplied with the predicted accessibility (using a GET model finetuned to predict ATAC logTPMs) as the predicted regulatory activity. For each region, we perform 600 insertion across the genome to match with the experimental insertion count. We used the GET model finetuned on K562 multiome and bulk ATAC- and RNA-sequencing data to perform the inference. For Enformer, we performed the same analysis, with the only difference is that we integrate the vector sequence to a random position on the genome and collected a 196,608 bp sequence centered around the insertion site. Enformer is trained on 5,313 human epigenome track, with 486 experiments specifically for K562. To compute the regulatory activity, we selected the output from the K562 CAGE track, which is a quantitative and nucleotide-level map of 5’ of transcripts. Following the practice of the original study, we used the average output of the 3 bins in the center of sequence as the predicted expression for a sample. Each elements were also inserted into 600 random genome locations to compute the final averaged regulatory activity. We were only able to perform this experiments for 1,000 enhancers and 1,000 non-enhancer elements due to the time complexity of Enformer inference. The comparison with GET is performed