Title: Applicability of the 0–1 test for chaos in magnetized Kerr–Newman spacetimes
Authors: Daqi Yang, Xin Wu
Section: 6 Summary
An external magnetic field which surrounds the Kerr– Newman black hole is so strong that it changes the spacetime geometry. The strong magnetic field in the spacetime acts as a gravitational effect to electrically neutral particles. It leads to the absence of the Carter constant. As a result, such a magnetized Kerr–Newman spacetime is nonintegrable. When test particles moving around the black hole are electrically charged, they are subject to the interaction of an external electromagnetic field as well as the magnetized Kerr–Newman spacetime. In this case, the dynamical model of electrically charged particles becomes more complicated. The motion of electrically neutral or charged particles around the magnetized Kerr–Newman black hole immersed in the external electromagnetic field is described in terms of a dimensionless Hamiltonian system. The Hamiltonian has several physical parameters, including the external magnetic field strength, the black hole’s rotating angular momentum, electric charge and magnetic charge, and the particle’s charge, angular momentum and energy. It has no separation of variables, and cannot be split into several explicitly integrable terms, either. However, an appropriate time transformation to the Hamiltonian allows for the existence of five explicitly integrable splitting parts. In this way, explicit symplectic integrators are easily available. It is shown numerically that the second- and fourth-order explicit symplectic integrators perform high accuracy in the conserved Hamiltonian quantity and show no secular drift in the Hamiltonian error. Considering computational efficiency, we select the secondorder explicit symplectic method as an integration tool to provide some insight into the dynamics of electrically neutral or charged particles. In addition, the 0–1 binary test correlation method is mainly used to distinguish between regular and chaotic dynamics. The correlation coefficient Kc = 0 corresponds to the regular dynamics, while the correlation coefficient Kc = 1 represents the chaotic dynamics. A bounded region like a ring surface, as the visual of two translation variables Pc and Qc, can characterize the regularity. If the visual of two translation variables Pc and Qc behave as an asymptotic unbounded Brownian motion, it can characterize the chaoticity. The correlation method is effective to detect chaos from order, as the other techniques of Poincaré map, power spectrum, Lyapunov exponents and FLIs are. It is more sensitive to find chaos than the Lyapunov exponents. From a statistical viewpoint, the transition from regularity to chaos occurs easily under some circumstances as both the external magnetic field strength and the particle charge and energy increase. Chaos is also easily induced when the black hole spin and the particle angular momentum decrease. The