Title: Evaluation of thermal comfort in air-conditioned rooms based on structure/control-related parameters and data-mining method
Authors: Shunan Zhao, Lin He, Xin Wu, Guowen Xu, Junlong Xie, Shanshan Cai
Section: 5 Conclusions
In this study, three data-mining methods—the MLR model, BP neural network model, and SVR model—were utilized to build the thermal environment evaluation model. The evaluation indices of the thermal environment, including the vertical air temperature difference, temperature uniformity, temperature drop rate, draft rate, and PMV indices, were evaluated. The simulation results indicated that the prediction accuracy of the SVR model was higher than those of the BP and MLR models with respect to the vertical air temperature difference, temperature uniformity, temperature drop rate, and draft rate in the multiple-input single-output evaluation method. In terms of PMV index prediction, the prediction accuracies of the BP and MLR models were slightly higher than that of the SVR model, and the relative error could be maintained at approximately 20%. The performance of the SVR model in predicting a single indoor thermal environment evaluation index was good, and it was thus selected for the multiple-input multiple-output evaluation method. The R2 of the prediction results was greater than 0.93, except for the prediction of the vertical air temperature difference, which was 0.81. In comparison with the multiple-input single-output evaluation method, the prediction accuracies of the corresponding indices were reduced; however, replacing five multiple-input single-output evaluation models with one multiple-input multiple-output evaluation model could simplify the complexity and save computation time. Therefore, the multiple-input single-output evaluation method is recommended for high-precision prediction, while the multiple-input multiple-output evaluation method is recommended for high-efficiency prediction. Acknowledgements This work was funded and supported by the State Key Laboratory of Air-conditioning Equipment and System Energy Conservation (Grant No. ACSKL2019KT11). Authors’ contributions Conceptualization, S.Z., L.H. and S.C.; methodology, X.W. and S.C.; validation, G.X.; formal analysis, X.W.; investigation, S.Z.; resources, S.Z.; writing—original draft preparation, X.W.; writing—review and editing, S.C. and J.X.; supervision, J.X.; project administration, L.H. and S.C.; funding acquisition, L.H. The author(s) read and approved the final manuscript. Availability of data and materials The data that support the findings of this study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request. Declarations Competing interests The authors declare that they have no competing interests. Received: 10 June 2022 Accepted: 20 January 2023 References 1. General Administration of Quality Supervision, Inspection and Quaran- tine of the People’s Republic of China, Standardization Administration of the People’s Republic of China. (2017). Thermal comfort requirements and evaluation for indoor environment. In GB/T 33658-2017. Standards Press of China. 2. ISO 7730. Ergonomics of the thermal environment-analytical determination and interpretation of thermal comfort using calculation of the PMV and PPD indices and local thermal comfort criteria, 2005. 3.