Title: POLAR-2, the next generation of GRB polarization detector
Authors: Nicolas Produit, Merlin Kole, Xin wu, Nicolas De Angelis, Hancheng Li, Dominik Rybka, Agnieszka Pollo, Slawomir Mianowski, Jochen Greiner, Shuang-Nan Zhang
Section: 4. Performance
The first prototype detector modules of POLAR-2 have been tested in the lab using radioactive sources as well as during a dedicated calibration campaign at the ESRF synchrotron in April 2023 [3]. This data, which was taken using 3 prototype detector modules, was used to firstly measure the light yield performance of each scintillator readout channel. The light yield for the optimum configuration was found to be 1.6 p.e./keV and therefore matches that expected from previous simulations. In addition, it was found that whereas for POLAR the use of MAPMTs results in significant optical crosstalk (around 10 − 15% between channels, for POLAR-2 design the optical P o S ( I C R C 2 0 2 3 ) 5 5 0 cross talk is insignificant as it well below 1%. This significantly increases POLAR-2’s sensitivity to polarization and simplifies data analysis. Finally, it was found that at room temperature a single channel threshold (which forces a trigger of the full instrument in case one channel in a module goes above this) of 8 keV could be achieved, while for the double channel threshold (which triggers the readout if 2 channels in a single module exceed this) this can be set to 5 keV. In orbit, where the temperature is expected to be 0𝐶◦ this can be lowered to 5 and 3 keV based on the current performance. In addition to these studies the data from ESRF is currently being used to study the performance of the detector to polarized emission. In total calibration data was used to measure the instrument response at 40, 60, 80, 100 and 120 keV for different incoming and polarization angles. The results, which are still under study, indicate a good agreement with the simulated instrument responses. Preliminary results of the response of a single detector module to a 40 keV polarized beam (in two different directions) can be seen in figure 5. While more optimization of the data analysis needs to be performed, these results already show a significant improvement over POLAR which was unable to measure polarization at such low energies. These first results show a modulation factor of ≈ 15% at 40 keV for a single module. For 60, 100 and 120 keV, the current results show modulation factors of 20%,30% and 27% respecitvally. Simulations using GEANT4 [4] will be performed over the coming weeks to extrapolate how this modulation factor increases when moving from 1 to 100 detector modules. Figure 5: Left: The corrected modulation curve for a single detector module