Title: Contextualized Networks Reveal Heterogeneous Transcriptomic Regulation in Tumors at Sample-Specific Resolution
Authors: Caleb N. Ellington, Benjamin J. Lengerich, Thomas B.K. Watkins, Jiekun Yang, Manolis Kellis, Eric P. Xing
Section: 
held-out expression data and reveal latent heterogeneity which has previously94 been obscured by partition-based methods of network inference.95 3 Results96 Graphical model inference is a canonical task in the life sciences, whereby unstructured observational data is trans-97 formed into graph revealing the latent structure, strength, and direction of interactions between biological entities.98 However, for heterogeneous populations where latent models change from individual to individual, such as how tu-99 morigenesis is driven by patient-specific environmental and molecular factors, traditional modeling approaches are100 ill-defined. We introduce contextualized GRNs, which learn to model the effect of individual clinical and molecular101 contexts on GRN parameters, revealing latent model-based drivers of GRN dysregulation and tumor heterogeneiety.102 While GRNs are commonly interpreted as adjacency graphs [25, 27, 29], existing methods for GRN inference can103 be categorized as variants of four probabilistic models: Markov networks, which represent pairwise dependencies,104 Pearson’s correlation networks, which represent pairwise correlations, neighborhood regression networks, which rep-105 resent each node as a linear combination of its neighbors, and Bayesian networks, and which represent directed and106 acyclic interactions. We focus on Markov, correlation, and neighborhood networks, unifying these models through a107 reparameterization trick, and thus enable them to be contextualized uniformly within our framework.108 The power gained from contextualization allows us to estimate highly accurate sample-specific network models109 without incorporating any prior knowledge of network structure. We apply contextualized graph estimation to infer110 context-specific networks for 7997 patients in TCGA, utilizing molecular contexts including cancer-driving single nu-111 cleotide variations (SNVs), somatic copy number alterations (SCNAs), biopsy composition metrics, and patient demo-112 graphics. Across all network classes, contextualized networks confer significant improvements for network accuracy113 and likelihood, generalizing to held-out populations and held-out disease types. We evaluate our 7997 patient-specific114 GRNs for new clinical and biological insights, discovering robust state-of-the-art prognostic subtypes for thyroid carci-115 noma (THCA) and brain lower grade glioma (LGG), as well as cross-tissue disease groups like the gastointestinal tract116 that includes four distinct tumor types. Finally, patient-specific networks relate prognostic biomarkers to changes in117 specific regulatory modules and gross GRN organization, and identify candidate biomarkers for further investigation.118 Contextualization Recovers Latent Variation from Heterogeneous Observational Data119 Observational data is cheap and abundant in comparison to experimental data, but suffers from complex environmen-120 tal confounders, contexts, and conditions. To recover latent processes of data generation through model estimation121 with observational data, the user must artificially control for on sample contexts and conditions to emulate a con-122 trolled experimental environment. However, controlling for all conditions and contexts simultaneously, especially on123 biomedical data with