Title: Defending Against Poisoning Attacks in Federated Learning with Blockchain
Authors: Nanqing Dong, Zhipeng Wang, Jiahao Sun, Michael Kampffmeyer, William Knottenbelt
Section: B. Results
7(c) and 7(d) further provide the cumulative sum over the number of award and slash epochs, illustrating that the majority of the epochs consist of award epochs and that the fraction of revert and slash episodes increases with the rising fraction of malicious proposers. Finally, we depict the average tokens remaining in honest and malicious proposers under various configurations of γp in Fig. 8 and Fig. 9. We observe the same phenomenon as Fig. 6, which aligns with the expectations of our system design and reinforces the effectiveness of our approach. 4) Survival Analysis of Clients: As shown in Fig. 10, the anticipated survival time of malicious proposers experiences a decrease as γp increases. This effect can be attributed to the incentive mechanism in place, whereby a higher value of γp results in a greater penalty for proposers who act maliciously. Fig. 11 shows the survival time of honest proposers under different values of γp and exhibits noteworthy behavior. In cases where the malicious ratio η is high, the expected survival time of honest proposers may decrease with a large γp. This is due to the fact that, in each epoch, all randomly selected proposers will be slashed if the performance of the aggregated global model does not show improvement. Therefore, it is worth noting that balancing the token slashing parameter γp is crucial, because setting an excessively high value can harm honest proposers, whereas a small value can lead to slow convergence (see Fig. 12). 5) Sensitivity to Malicious Client Ratio: The results presented in Fig. 5 demonstrate the robustness of our proposed method, FedAVG w/ block, against different malicious client ratios, as its performance remains unaffected even under large η values. However, it is important to note that the malicious client ratio can impact the token distribution and survival time of clients. Specifically, when there are more malicious clients present in the system, honest clients tend to accumulate more assets on average (c.f . Fig. 9(a) - 9(d)). Nevertheless, they also face a higher risk of being slashed during an epoch, which can ultimately shorten their survival time (c.f . Fig. 11(a) - 11(d)). 6) Limitations: In this work, as the experimental results aim to evaluate the robustness of the proposed framework, several practical challenges are simplified, e.g. staleness [48], storage, and privacy [44]. Further, the proposed method requires more computational power than traditional methods due to mining (blockchain computing) and voting. Finally, large models have gained in popularity in practical applications, e.g. ViT [49] and GPT-3 [50].