Title: Contextualized Networks Reveal Heterogeneous Transcriptomic Regulation in Tumors at Sample-Specific Resolution
Authors: Caleb N. Ellington, Benjamin J. Lengerich, Thomas B.K. Watkins, Jiekun Yang, Manolis Kellis, Eric P. Xing
Section: 
and survival. Our models reveal new insights about cancer heterogeneity by relating212 transcriptomic, genetic, immune, and clinical factors to through tumor regulatory network topology.213 The importance of context in cancer development and treatment is well recognised with treatment decisions fre-214 quently determined by a tumor’s tissue of origin. The frequency of mutations in specific driver mutations varies215 substantially between tumors of different tissues and likely reflects the importance of distinct signaling pathways216 within distinct cellular contexts [48]. For example, BRAF(V600E) driver mutations vary substantially in frequency217 across cancer types and drugs that target the BRAF(V600E) mutant product are less effective in colorectal cancers218 than in skin cutaneous melanoma and non-small cell lung cancers with this mutation [49]. Further emphasizing the219 importance of context beyond the tissue-level, considerable variation in terms of aggressiveness, drug sensitivity, and220 genomic mutations, is also observed between tumors arising from the same cell type and tissue [50]. These hetero-221 geneous genetic contexts likely hinder efforts to define tumor subgroups based on specific mutations with epistasis,222 which involves the action of one gene on another, having been shown to affect treatment efficacy in acute myeloid223 leukemia where NPM1 mutations confer a favorable prognosis only in the presence of a co-occurring IDH1 or IDH2224 mutation [51].225 Although genetic heterogeneity between tumors from the same tumor type is known to be widespread, it has long226 been thought that heterogeneity at the phenotype level may not be so marked, with the same cellular pathways often227 affected [52]. For example, dysregulation of the G1–S transition is observed in almost all cancers, and may occur228 through multiple routes, both promoting proliferation and overriding cellular senescence [53]. However, in spite of229 the evidence for functional convergence, it is challenging with current statistical methods to identify biomarkers that230 define similar phenotypes on genetically diverse contexts in order to guide treatment.231 Many promising expression-based biomarkers use the level of expression across gene pathways or multiple genes232 rather than identifying specific somatic mutations [24]. Contextualized GRNs provide an intuitive way of identifying233 both subpopulations with differential transcriptomic regulation and the pathway-level cohorts of genes that should234 be studied as potential biomarkers, as well as the likely effect size of pathway dysregulation. Contextualized GRNs235 further identify associated contextual signals with these subpopulations, providing new leads for traditional classes of236 genomic biomarkers.237 More broadly, contextualized modeling seeks to estimate context-specific models beyond context-specific sam-238 pling constraints. By sharing information among samples while also allowing sample-specific variation, our frame-239 work models complex and dynamic distributions despite physical and technical