Title: Recent progresses on the γ-ray observations of DAMPE
Authors: Zhao-Qiang Shen, Kai-Kai Duan, Wei Jiang
Section: 2. Calibration, photon data and instrumental response functions (IRFs)
simu R95 scaled R68 scaled R95 R68 pulsars R95 pulsars R68 AGN R95 AGN pre limi nar y 104 Energy [MeV] 0.10 0.08 0.06 0.04 0.02 0.00 va ria tio n of H ET e ffi cie nc y [y r 1 ] Fit MC electron (Li+2023) photon pre limi nar y Figure 2: The calibration of IRFs with flight data. The left panel shows 68% and 95% containment radii of the MC (solid line) and calibrated (dot-dashed) PSF. The right panel shows the variation of HET efficiency. The blue and orange points represent the variation of MC electrons and observed photons. The IRFs are the parameterized representations of the instrumental responses to incident photons, which depends on the 𝛾-ray selection algorithm. They are factorized into three components: the effective area, the point-spread function (PSF) and the energy dispersion function, and are derived from the MC simulation [9]. IRFs are critical for the data analysis, and thereby should match the actual response. The PSF and effective area have also been calibrated with the flight data recently and the corrections are incorporated into the up-to-date version of DmpST. 1The data and the analysis software DmpST are available in https://dampe.nssdc.ac.cn. P o S ( I C R C 2 0 2 3 ) 6 7 0 PSF describes the distribution of angular deviation between the true and reconstructed incident directions. In [10], 7.2-yr photons from pulsars (Vela, Geminga and Crab) and active galaxy nuclei (AGNs) are adopted to derive the containment radii of the PSF. As shown in the left panel of Fig. 2, the 68% containment radii (the points) are slightly larger than the MC ones shown in the solid lines. An energy-dependent factor is multiplied to the extension of the PSF core component 𝜎core to compensate for the difference. The factor is derived by fitting the measured containment radii, and the results after the correction are shown in dot-dashed lines. Due to the on-orbit pre-scale of Low Energy Trigger [2, 11], the majority of DAMPE photons are HET events. In [12], the High Energy Trigger threshold in energy is found to increase gradually with time, which is mainly caused by the irradiation damage of BGO bars. To quantify the efficiency variation of HET photons, the observed photons are binned into several energy bins, the change of counts observed per year is evaluated, which is shown with orange points in the right panel of Fig. 2. The result is consistent with the energy-dependent HET trigger efficiency variation of MC electrons. The