Title: Defending Against Poisoning Attacks in Federated Learning with Blockchain
Authors: Nanqing Dong, Zhipeng Wang, Jiahao Sun, Michael Kampffmeyer, William Knottenbelt
Section: 
The overall procedure of the stake-based aggregation mechanism is illustrated in Fig. 1. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first work that integrates the majority voting and incentive mechanisms in the FL and blockchain literature. We evaluate the proposed framework on a practical financial problem, namely loan default prediction. We simulate the FL and blockchain environment for the Lending Club Kaggle challenge dataset and ChestX-ray14 dataset [20], to conduct experiments in a controllable setting and to provide insights into the problem of interest. We empirically show that an FL system can maintain robust performance under malicious attacks by introducing the proposed stake-based aggregation mechanism. The contributions of this work are summarized as follows: 1) We formulate the problem of decentralized federated learning with blockchain in the presence of poisoning attacks. 2) For the first time, we introduce a novel stake-based aggregation mechanism designed to fortify federated learning systems against poisoning attacks. In contrast to prior solutions, our mechanism boasts the distinct advantage of seamless integration into any blockchain enabled with smart contracts, all without necessitating alterations to the foundational consensus structure of the underlying blockchain. This approach not only enhances security but also simplifies accessibility, rendering it a more user-friendly option for federated learning participants. 1In practice, the staked assets can be linked with cryptocurrency or real currency to increase the financial cost of malicious attacks. 3) We evaluate the robustness of the proposed framework in a simulated environment and provide initial empirical insights into the problem of interest. The findings show evidence that stake-based FL is an under-explored research problem with potential advantages compared with existing FL paradigms in terms of defending against poisoning attacks. The rest of the paper is organized as follows. Sec. II reviews the related work on FL and blockchain computing. Sec. III formulates the problem of interest, defines the key concepts, and lists the necessary assumptions. Sec. IV presents the method and theoretical result. Sec. V and Sec. VI provide the experimental details on two different setups. Sec. VII concludes this work.