Title: Observational signatures of Schwarzschild-MOG black holes in scalar–tensor–vector gravity: images of the accretion disk
Authors: Shiyang Hu, Chen Deng, Sen Guo, Xin Wu, Enwei Liang
Section: 3 Observational features of the accretion disk in Schwarzschild-MOG spacetime
z = 1 + bΩ sin ω cos η f (rs) E, (34) where E and Ω are obtained from Eqs. (13) and (15), respectively. Obviously, the redshift factor is closely related to the coordinate rs of the disk element and its projection (b, η) on the observational plane, as well as the observational angle ω. We assume that the inner and outer boundaries of the accretion disk are, respectively, the stable circular orbits of r = rms and r = 40, and investigate the redshift distributions (contour map of redshift z) in the direct images for various inclination angles and parameter α, as demonstrated in Fig. 5. In each panel, the black dashed line corresponds to the contour curve of z = 0, which divides the direct image into two parts: the left side correspond to the blueshift with z < 0, while the right side is the redshift. Intuitively, it is found that as the parameter α increases, the redshift in the image also increases, as does the blueshift (One can see the expansion of the contour curve corresponds to a larger blueshift when zooming in on the left part of the images). The dependency of the redshift on parameter α is also shown in the secondary images, which are plotted in Fig. 6. As we know, the redshift is caused by the Doppler effect due to the motion of accretion flow and consequently depends mainly on the relative velocity of the disk elements with respect to the observer. Figure 7 presents the variation of the linear velocity vr = Ωr of the accretion flow at various radius for different values of parameter α. It is clear that vr increases with the increase of α for a certain radius, which can explain the relationship between the redshift (blueshift) and the parameter α we discussed before. 3.3 The images of the accretion disk In this section, the steady-state thin accretion disk is placed on the equatorial plane of the Schwarzschild-MOG BH, and the thickness of the disk is negligible compared to its radial dimension. Meanwhile, the accretion disk is considered to be stabilized at hydrodynamic equilibrium. Hence, by using the Novikov-Thorne model proposed in [73–75], the emitted energy flux Fe of the disk can be expressed as Fe = − ṀD 4π √−A Ω ′ (E − ΩL)2 ∫ rs rms (E − ΩL) L ′dr, (35) where Fe is given the scale transformation Fe → Fe/M2, ṀD denotes the accretion rate of the BH, and A is the