Title: Cost analysis of three-dimensional radiation therapy versus intensity- modulated chemoradiotherapy for locally advanced cervical cancer in Peruvian citizens
Authors: José Fernando Robles Díaz
Section: Statistical analysis
Staffing costs could thus not have been reduced further. Perhaps using another LINAC that optimises treatment speed through gantry mobility and MLC motion, such as the Varian® Halcyon [55, 56], could significantly lower teletherapy costs. Similarly, the limitation of the special techniques planning is that it only has two RT planning systems, running 12 hours a day, for the whole service. Consequently, the only way to increase the supply of special technical plans and LINAC services would be to recruit more professionals in order to increase the working hours and teletherapy supply capacity from 32 to 48 patients per day, but this involves more hours of doing radiation, which has a direct outcome of reducing the operational lifespan of LINAC [57, 58]. The limitations of the study are: First, we made some simplifying assumptions regarding the natural history and treatment of the disease. Second, the limited number of patients could have different costs due to social status. Third, it is possible that we did not account for differences in delayed toxic effects as follow-up data is limited. However, the total rate of these effects seems lower through special techniques according to clinical trials. Conclusion Our study is one of the few to evaluate the costs of 3D and special technique treatments that have incorporated patient costs, direct costs, added over time and the indirect cost to patients and their households. Moreover, this is the first report that includes clinical and economic oncologic data from a Peruvian public hospital. In RT centres with a positive supply over demand of modern LINAC equipment, VMAT should be preferred over IMRT/3D as it lowers costs and toxicity, but in RT centres where demand exceeds the supply of planning systems with VMAT techniques, patients with stages IIB to IIIC1 cancer could continue making use of 3D teletherapy over IMRT/VMAT for the short period of time during the planning process, but VMAT is preferable for stage IIIC2 patients, as it saves hospital resources and indirect costs. Acknowledgments The authors would like to thank the Junín Regional Health Authority and the Regional Institute for Neoplastic Diseases (Central Region).