Title: Cost analysis of three-dimensional radiation therapy versus intensity- modulated chemoradiotherapy for locally advanced cervical cancer in Peruvian citizens
Authors: José Fernando Robles Díaz
Section: Statistical analysis
cost, to meet the volumes of PPA nodes recommended by EMBRACE II [34]. Nevertheless, the inclusion of PA volumes has been shown to increase the risk of acute and delayed intestinal toxicity [35, 36]. This is why, at the institution at stage IIIC2, the pelvic segment is treated first and then the PA segment, increasing the number of sessions and, as a result the number of procedures [37]. Urban et al [38], based on patients at clinical stage IA1 to IIIC2, revealed that patients undergoing definitive teletherapy with an HDRBT boost reported less late and subacute gastrointestinal toxicity when treated with IMRT/VMAT, compared to 3D. So there is a clinical benefit, in addition to an economic benefit as demonstrated by the study, as there is a marked decrease in the cost of teletherapy when using VMAT rather than IMRT or 3D. Regarding the intra-hospital procedure time, more time is generally required during the administration of CT, which is only considered concurrent, but not in the later stage of CTRT, given that for stage IIB to IVA, CTRT is more cost-effective than CTRT followed by adjuvant CT [39]. On the other hand, when the special technique is used, it requires a great deal more planning for the same complexity but shortens the teletherapy time for VMAT (Figure 2). This is due to advanced technology also carrying a corresponding computational burden, which considerably increases the total planning time. According to statistics, radiotherapists spend an average of 4 hours delineating the target volume plan and organs at risk, and it can also be delayed further by some complex illnesses. After this, the medical physicists formulate an RT plan which complies with treatment standards, which takes approximately 10 hours per patient [40, 41]. A large amount of time required for planning inevitably leads to a delay in treatment, which then affects the quality of treatment and the prognosis of the patients [42]. In the future, based on steep learning networks and optimisation algorithms, like the voxel dose restriction optimisation model or setting up predicted Dose Volume Histograms-aided targets, it will allow the development of an automated planning system that will ultimately serve the doctors and physicists, balancing the cost of time and precision [41]. Our study shows that indirect costs are lower for all stages using VMAT. The difference in the loss of productivity and the use of transportation is notable (Table 3). This is due to the reduction of hospital visits, and the shorter time involved in each teletherapy session; consequently, the accumulated