Title: Fairness Through Domain Awareness: Mitigating Popularity Bias For Music Discovery
Authors: Rebecca Salganik, Fernando Diaz, Golnoosh Farnadi
Section: 5.2 RQ2: How does our individual fairness approach compare to existing methods for mitigating popularity bias?
that users are drawn to homogeneous listening suggestions when engaging with algorithmic curation [7, 35]. As we can see in both datasets, REDRESS and BOOST consistently achieve the highest Flow. This is because, by harnessing musical features and in our debiasing technique, our method generates representations that are indicative of musical similarity, which affects the downstream musical similarity of the recommendations it generates. Meanwhile, looking at the Artist Recall columns, we can see a much less significant drop (or, in the case of MPD an increase) in the performance between backbone recommender models and their debiasing counterparts. Crucially, if we consider the implications of such a debiasing technique on a user who’s taste skews towards popular music, high performance on these metrics means that our debiasing methods’ awareness of musical similarity will enable it to maintain the stylistic elements that a user is drawn to while simultaneously promoting niche content. Next, we compare the performance among the various fairness promotion methods. Looking at the columns of recall and ndcg on Table 3, we can see that, as expected, xQuAD [3] which is a reranking method is able to preserve the highest utility. However, we note that among the remainingmethods, REDRESS is able to achieve the second highest utility. Meanwhile, if we look at the fairness metrics, we can see that REDRESS and BOOST are the highest performing methods. In particular, looking at the columns for %LT and LT Cvg, we can see that REDRESS is noticeably better than the other methods and BOOST is able to improve on its performance. Crucially, our method is able to have high values in both coverage and percentage of long tail items meaning that REDRESS/BOOST is not just prioritizing niche items but also choosing a diverse selection from this category. We attribute the relative gains of REDRESS and BOOST to their ability to integrate musical features into their fairness mitigation because they are able to select not just niche Table 3: Comparison between all methods.Note: We use bold highlights to represent the best performance within a column for each of the datasets. The 𝑝 values of this table are calculated by applying the Wilcoxon signed-rank test [53] to results between PinSage and BOOST. As you can see, the BOOST method achieves the best performance along all Fairness metrics when compared with the other debiasing benchmarks. Classic Music Fairness Data Model Recall@100 NDCG@100 Artist Recall@100 Flow Diversity %LT LT Cvg Artist Cvg MPD Features 0.041 0.073 0.073 0.900 0.841 0.588 0.022 0.073 MostPop 0.044 0.048