Title: COMPARATIVE EFFICACY OF FIRST AND SECOND GENERATION LONG-ACTING INJECTABLE ANTIPSYCHOTIC IN SCHIZOPHRENIC PATIENTS: A SYSTEMATIC REVIEW AND NETWORK META-ANALYSIS
Authors: Manuel Ramiro
Section: Discussion
PANSS mean changes and other outcomes. Although the main focus of this manuscript is the efficacy of LAI´s antipsychotics, our protocol also encompasses data on safety and tolerability. Due to the heterogeneous nature of these studies (inconsistency among studies and evaluation methods), a separate analysis and discussion of the information pertaining to efficacy were necessary. We conducted a search for various safety variables, including treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAEs), serious treatmentemergent adverse events (sTEAEs), extrapyramidal symptoms (EPS), use of antiparkinsonian drugs, clinically significant weight gain, suicide ideation, and attempts, pain at the injection site, discontinuation due to any cause, discontinuation due to adverse effects, and discontinuation due to lack of efficacy. However, given the limited literature available on most of these variables, we were only able to provide a critical review of the literature for the following variables. Nonetheless, we can discuss some of the results included in our protocol, considering the significant relevance of the safety aspect of antipsychotics, particularly given the prevalence of metabolic alterations and neurologic adverse events associated with this class of drugs. Regarding TEAEs and sTEAEs, aripiprazole and risperidone demonstrated favorable outcomes when compared to placebo, respectively. However, aripiprazole exhibited a non-protective effect against sTEAEs. Arch Neurocien (Mex) Saucedo-Uribe E et al. Volume 28, number 2, year 2023 archivosdeneurociencias.org | 41 Only one study reported two deaths, with the majority of studies reporting a low incidence of mortality. Among LAIs, risperidone demonstrated the lowest mortality rate compared to placebo. The all-cause discontinuation rate of LAIs indicated a protective effect for all treatments, except for haloperidol decanoate. Aripiprazole exhibited the highest rate of treatment continuation compared to placebo. Regarding discontinuation due to adverse events, aripiprazole had the lowest rate of treatment abandonment attributed to adverse events. Please refer to Figure 4 for detailed results. In a meta-analysis conducted by our group,14 we aimed to assess safety aspects related to the use of LAIs. Despite the numerous variables we attempted to evaluate, measures were often reported using different methods, making it difficult to draw conclusions regarding these variables. However, indirect and direct comparisons allowed for some insights to be gained. Regarding extrapyramidal symptoms and tardive dyskinesia, SG-LAIs were more likely to be associated with these adverse events compared to placebo, although this did not impact treatment discontinuation. The metabolic profile of LAIs was evaluated in only one study that conducted a metabolic assessment including measures of glucose, HbA1c%, and lipid profile over a 24-month period.22 This study compared haloperidol decanoate and paliperidone palmitate, with no differences observed within