Title: Impact of outpatient radiotherapy on direct non-medical cost in patients in the Central Macro Region of Peru 2021
Authors: José Fernando Robles Díaz
Section: Statistical analysis
159 cases; 22% did not return for radiotherapy because of financial or logistics reasons. With regard to adherence, patients had lower chances of survival in case of discontinuation. This is consistent with our results, where there is a negative correlation between distance and level of completion of the regimen (Figure 2). It is recommended that advantages should be taken of hypo-fractionated regimens that are just as or more effective than conventional ones. There are many studies that show the benefits of hypo-fractionation in lung cancer [22], prostate cancer [23], breast cancer [24], advanced head cancer [25], inoperable locally advanced oesophageal cancer [26] and rectal cancer [27, 28], it being as effective as conventional radiotherapy. With regard to limitations, there was the lack of a Latin American scientific background, in relation to low output at a national level. However, our data can be extrapolated to other hospitals. The analysis has a limited number of patients who received radiotherapy, so the results will Re se ar ch ecancer 2023, 17:1580; www.ecancer.org; DOI: https://doi.org/10.3332/ecancer.2023.1580 7 not be generalisable. Likewise, the cost evaluation is more than that expressed in the current work. In spite of this, these may be the main ones for Peru. The follow-up of patients is too short to determine a good correlation with disease progression. However, our study is one of the few that have prospectively evaluated the costs related to the transfer of cancer patients undergoing radiotherapy in a Latin American centre. Conclusion Our results show that the cost associated with transfer is high, exceeding the average monthly income of the patient, and may be causing financial toxicity in cancer patients undergoing radiotherapy in Peru. Distance correlates positively with higher average weekly cost and start time, and negatively with completion of the radiotherapy regimen and the worst outcome in the first year post irradiation. Confirmatory studies are needed to establish risk factors. Additionally, future studies should focus on prevention and interventions to improve radiotherapy satisfaction and outcomes in patients. Acknowledgments The authors would like to thank the Junín Regional Health Authority and the Regional Institute for Neoplastic Diseases (Central Region).