Title: Active Retrieval Augmented Generation
Authors: Zhengbao Jiang, Frank F. Xu, Luyu Gao, Zhiqing Sun, Qian Liu, Jane Dwivedi-Yu, Yiming Yang, Jamie Callan, Graham Neubig
Section: D Prompts and Few-shot exemplars
is ambiguous in terms of which specific name is being referred to - the character’s name or the actor’s name. In order to figure out its interpretations, we need to consider both possibilities: the character’s name or the actor’s name. Therefore, this question has 2 interpretations: (1) What is the criminal’s character name in The Breakfast Club? (2) What is the the name of the actor who played the criminal in The Breakfast Club? The answers to all interpretations are: (1) John Bender was the name of the criminal’s character in The Breakfast Club. (2) Judd Nelson was the actor of the criminal in The Breakfast Club. Given an ambiguous question, figure out its interpretations and answer them one by one. Question: How many state parks are there in virginia? Answer: Prompt D.8: exemplars of ASQA-hint Given an ambiguous question and a hint on which aspect of the question is ambiguous, figure out its interpretations and answer them one by one. Question: Who played bonnie in gone with the wind? Hint: This question is ambiguous in terms of which version or adaptation of Gone with the Wind is being referred to. Answer: In order to figure out its interpretations, we need to consider different versions or adaptations of Gone with the Wind. Gone with the Wind has two versions or adaptations: the 1939 film Gone with the Wind or the 2008 musical Gone with the Wind. Therefore, this question has 2 interpretations: (1) Who played Bonnie in the 1939 film Gone with the Wind? (2) Who played Bonnie in the 2008 musical Gone with the Wind? The answers to all interpretations are: (1) The 1939 film Gone with the Wind’s character Bonnie was played by Eleanore Cammack "Cammie" King. (2) The 2008 musical Gone with the Wind’s character Bonnie was played by Leilah de Meza. Given an ambiguous question and a hint on which aspect of the question is ambiguous, figure out its interpretations and answer them one by one. Question: What is the second largest city in the usa? Hint: This question is ambiguous in terms of the criteria being used to determine the second largest city in the USA. Answer: In order to figure out its interpretations, we need to consider different criteria to determine a city’s size. City size can be measured by two criteria: population or area. Therefore, this question has 2 interpretations: (1) What is the second largest city in the USA by population? (2) What is the second largest city in the USA by