Title: It’s MBR All the Way Down: Modern Generation Techniques Through the Lens of Minimum Bayes Risk
Authors: Amanda Bertsch, Alex Xie, Graham Neubig, Matthew R. Gormley
Section: B Contextualizing this work within philosophy of science
In this section, we contextualize our work in the broader framings of meta-analysis of scientific research. Patterns of citation in NLP Several factors have been shown to correlate with citation rate in NLP, including author geographic location (Rungta et al., 2022), author gender (Mohammad, 2020), and publication date (Bollmann and Elliott, 2020; Singh et al., 2023). Bollmann and Elliott (2020) conduct a bibliometric anaylsis of the ACL Anthology, finding that the mean age of papers cited decreased significantly from 2010 to 2019. Singh et al. (2023) expand this analysis to the full anthology, finding that, while citations of older papers rose briefly in the mid-2010s, it has since declined, with 2021 marking a historic low for the percentage of citations that went to older papers8. They term this citational amnesia and discuss several possible reasons for the result, including the shift to neural methods and the rise of new areas of NLP. Our work raises another potential explanation: some citational amnesia is due to terminology drift over time, as old methods begin to be referred to by newer names. Term coining in science Work in science and technology studies has examined the broader phenomenon of term coining in science. Dyke (1992) argues that neologisms emerge more frequently in fields that prize novelty and see science as fundamentally about leaps of discovery, and fields that are perceived as synthesizing findings from multiple fields are most likely to recycle terms from other disciplines. She cites computer science as an example of a field where most new terms of art emerge from recycling common words, often those that draw a metaphor to some basic physical or human concept; this is reflected in the adoption of the humanizing “self-consistency” and the political-science-inspired “range voting” in decoding. Raad (1989) suggests that evocative, metaphorladen names are more likely to emerge as a scientific field grows more public-facing and in times where many new terms are being coined; both of these descriptors apply to modern NLP. While several works in linguistics and STS have considered 8They define an “older paper” as one that is more than 10 years older than the paper that is citing it. the coining of new terms for new phenomena, relatively little work has focused on the divergence of terminology for previously observed phenomena. The consequences of divergent or distinct terminology have also been studied, with differences in terminology across fields blamed for slow adaptation of research to practical applications (e.g. in studying visual distortions during plane takeoff (Calvert, 1956)). Borrowing terminology from