Title: Large Language Models Enable Few-Shot Clustering
Authors: Vijay Viswanathan, Kiril Gashteovski, Carolin Lawrence, Tongshuang Wu, Graham Neubig
Section: B Keyphrase Expansion Prompt
We provide a domain-specific prompt to the keyword expansion clusterer, using 4 entities from each dataset as demonstration examples. We provide the exact prompts used for reference: OPIEC59k Prompt I am trying to cluster entity strings on Wikipedia according to the Wikipedia article title they refer to. To help me with this, for a given entity name, please provide me with a comprehensive set of alternative names that could refer to the same entity. Entities may be weirdly truncated or ambiguous - e.g. "Wind" may refer to the band "Earth, Wind, and Fire" or to "rescue service". For each entity, I will provide you with a sentence where this entity is used to help you understand what this entity refers to. Generate a comprehensive set of alternate entity names as a JSON-formatted list. Entity: "fictional character" Context Sentences: 1) "Camille Raquin is a fictional character created by Émile Zola ." 2) "Druu is a fictional character appearing in comic books published by DC Comics ." 3) "Mallen is a fictional character that appears in comic books published by Marvel Comics ."" Alternate Entity Names: ["fictional characters", "characters", "character"] Entity: "Catholicism" Context Sentences: 1) "Years after Anne had herself converted , James avowed his Catholicism , which was a contributing factor to the Glorious Revolution ." 2) "The “ Catechism of the Catholic Church ” , representing Catholicism ’s great regard for Thomism , the teachings of St. Thomas Aquinas , affirms that it is a Catholic doctrine that God ’s existence can indeed be demonstrated by reason ." 3) "Palestinian Christians belong to one of a number of Christian denominations , including Eastern Orthodoxy , Oriental Orthodoxy , Catholicism ( Eastern and Western rites ) , Anglicanism , Lutheranism , other branches of Protestantism and others ."" Alternate Entity Names: ["Catholic Church", "Roman Catholic", "Catholic"] Entity: "Wind" Context Sentences: 1) "It was coproduced by Earth , Wind & Fire ’s keyboardist Larry Dunn ." 2) "Guitarist Tom Morello described the sound as “ Earth , Wind and Fire meets Led Zeppelin ” ." 3) "Taylor Mesplé also sang with Lampa along with Sydney Hostetler and the late Winston Ford ( Earth , Wind & Fire , The Drifters ) ."" Alternate Entity Names: ["Earth & Fire", "Earth", "Wind & Fire"] Entity: "Elizabeth" Context Sentences: 1) "He also performed at the London Palladium for Queen Elizabeth ." 2) "On July 5 , 2010 , Ray was honored to be a host of the informal lunch for Queen Elizabeth ’s visit to