Title: Active Retrieval Augmented Generation
Authors: Zhengbao Jiang, Frank F. Xu, Luyu Gao, Zhiqing Sun, Qian Liu, Jane Dwivedi-Yu, Yiming Yang, Jamie Callan, Graham Neubig
Section: D Prompts and Few-shot exemplars
Boraqchin (Wife Of Ögedei)’s father-in-law? Answer (with step-by-step): Boraqchin is married to Ögedei Khan. Ögedei Khan’s father is Genghis Khan. Thus, Boraqchin’s father-in-law is Genghis Khan. So the answer is Genghis Khan. Question: Who was born first out of Martin Hodge and Ivania Martinich? Answer (with step-by-step): Martin Hodge was born on 4 February 1959. Ivania Martinich was born on 25 July 1995. Thus, Martin Hodge was born first. So the answer is Martin Hodge. Question: When did the director of film Laughter In Hell die? Answer (with step-by-step): The film Laughter In Hell was directed by Edward L. Cahn. Edward L. Cahn died on August 25, 1963. So the answer is August 25, 1963. Question: Which film has the director died later, The Gal Who Took the West or Twenty Plus Two? Answer (with step-by-step): The film Twenty Plus Two was directed by Joseph M. Newman. The Gal Who Took the West was directed by Frederick de Cordova. Joseph M. Newman died on January 23, 2006. Fred de Cordova died on September 15, 2001. Thus, the person to die later from the two is Twenty Plus Two. So the answer is Twenty Plus Two. Question: Who is the grandchild of Krishna Shah (Nepalese Royal)? Answer (with step-by-step): Krishna Shah has a child named Rudra Shah. Rudra Shah has a child named Prithvipati Shah. Thus, Krishna Shah has a grandchild named Prithvipati Shah. So the answer is Prithvipati Shah. Now, combine the aforementioned two skills. First, write out the reasoning steps, then draw the conclusion, where the reasoning steps should also utilize the Search API “[Search(term)]” whenever possible. Question: Where did Minbyauk Thihapate’s wife die? Answer (with step-by-step & Search): Prompt D.4: exemplars of 2WikiMultihopQA Question: When did the director of film Hypocrite (Film) die? Answer: The film Hypocrite was directed by Miguel Morayta. Miguel Morayta died on 19 June 2013. So the answer is 19 June 2013. Question: Are both Kurram Garhi and Trojkrsti located in the same country? Answer: Kurram Garhi is located in the country of Pakistan. Trojkrsti is located in the country of Republic of Macedonia. Thus, they are not in the same country. So the answer is no. Question: Do director of film Coolie No. 1 (1995 Film) and director of film The Sensational Trial have the same nationality? Answer: Coolie No. 1 (1995 film) was directed by David Dhawan. The Sensational Trial was directed by Karl Freund. David Dhawan’s nationality is India. Karl Freund’s nationality is Germany. Thus, they do not have the same