Title: User-Centric Evaluation of OCR Systems for Kwak’wala
Authors: Shruti Rijhwani, Daisy Rosenblum, Michayla King, Antonios Anastasopoulos, Graham Neubig
Section: A Appendix
A.1 Keyboard for the Boas/Hunt Orthography For the user study described in Section 3, we designed a keyboard for the Boas/Hunt orthography to make transcription more efficient. The keyboard is developed using open-source software Keyman10 and it maps characters in the Boas orthography to the user’s computer keyboard. Keyman also provides an on-screen keyboard to see the mapped layout. We briefly describe the layout and usage of the keyboard below: • Standard English keyboard alphabet and numbers remain in the same position (A-Z, a-z, 0-9) because the Boas orthography uses several Latin script characters. • The special characters, diacritics, and digraphs of the Boas orthography have been assigned to various punctuation keys according to their frequency of use, estimated with a small sample of manually transcribed text (10 pages from Boas and Hunt (1921)). • All accents are typed after the base character. Examples are shown below: ? ä is typed a then square bracket ] ? k· is typed k then slash / ? ō is typed o then single quote ’ ? â is typed a then shift + comma , ? ă is typed a then shift + period . ? g. is typed g then shift + square bracket ] ? q´ is typed q then option (alt key) + 1 • Other special characters are: ? ď is assigned to semicolon ; ? ł is assigned to square bracket [ ? Ł is assigned to shift + square bracket [ ? E is assigned to option (alt key) + e ? u is assigned to option (alt key) + u ? Ï is assigned to option (alt key) + l 10https://keyman.com/developer/ • All changed punctuation keys can type their original value by holding down the Alt or Option key. For example, to get the original value of the square bracket [, type Alt + [ (Windows) or Option + [ (Mac). A.2 Kwak’wala Transcription: Post-Completion Survey In Section 3, we describe a user study to evaluate the utility of OCR and post-correction models in reducing the time and effort needed for manual transcription. After participants completed transcriptions tasks, we also asked them to fill out a survey to get subjective feedback on their experience with the tasks. Discussion and analysis of the answers from the survey are in Section 3.7. We provide a complete list of the questions asked in the survey here: 1. Were there specific tasks you found easier or more difficult to annotate? 2. Did you prefer typing the text from scratch