Title: Active Retrieval Augmented Generation
Authors: Zhengbao Jiang, Frank F. Xu, Luyu Gao, Zhiqing Sun, Qian Liu, Jane Dwivedi-Yu, Yiming Yang, Jamie Callan, Graham Neubig
Section: D Prompts and Few-shot exemplars
during some college commencements? Answer: College commencement ceremonies can happen in December, May, and June. December is in the winter, so there can be frost. Thus, there could be frost at some commencements. So the final answer is yes. Generate a yes or no answer to the following question. Question: Could a llama birth twice during War in Vietnam (1945-46)? Answer: The War in Vietnam was 6 months. The gestation period for a llama is 11 months, which is more than 6 months. Thus, a llama could not give birth twice during the War in Vietnam. So the final answer is no. Generate a yes or no answer to the following question. Question: Would a pear sink in water? Answer: The density of a pear is about 0.6g/cm3, which is less than water. Objects less dense than water float. Thus, a pear would float. So the final answer is no. Generate a yes or no answer to the following question. Question: Did Spiderman fight against Falcon in the MCU? Answer: Prompt D.6: exemplars of ASQA Given an ambiguous question, figure out its interpretations and answer them one by one. Question: Who played bonnie in gone with the wind? Answer: This question is ambiguous in terms of which version or adaptation of Gone with the Wind is being referred to. In order to figure out its interpretations, we need to consider different versions or adaptations of Gone with the Wind. Gone with the Wind has two versions or adaptations: the 1939 film Gone with the Wind or the 2008 musical Gone with the Wind. Therefore, this question has 2 interpretations: (1) Who played Bonnie in the 1939 film Gone with the Wind? (2) Who played Bonnie in the 2008 musical Gone with the Wind? The answers to all interpretations are: (1) The 1939 film Gone with the Wind’s character Bonnie was played by Eleanore Cammack "Cammie" King. (2) The 2008 musical Gone with the Wind’s character Bonnie was played by Leilah de Meza. Given an ambiguous question, figure out its interpretations and answer them one by one. Question: What is the second largest city in the usa? Answer: This question is ambiguous in terms of the criteria being used to determine the second largest city in the USA. In order to figure out its interpretations, we need to consider different criteria to determine a city’s size. City size can be measured by two criteria: population or area. Therefore, this question has 2 interpretations: (1) What is the second largest city in