Title: GlobalBench: A Benchmark for Global Progress in Natural Language Processing
Authors: Yueqi Song, Catherine Cui, Simran Khanuja, Pengfei Liu, Fahim Faisal, Alissa Ostapenko, Genta Indra Winata, Alham Fikri Aji, Samuel Cahyawijaya, Yulia Tsvetkov, Antonios Anastasopoulos, Graham Neubig
Section: 2 GlobalBench Design Principles
when there is support for only one language, G = 1. Formally, if performance of a language for a task is yi, (i = 1 ... n where n is the total number of languages), and is indexed in non-decreasing order (yi ≤ yi+1), then the Gini coefficient (G) can be calculated as: G = 1 n ( n + 1− 2 ∑n i=1(n + 1− i)yi∑n i=1 yi ) (4) For each task, we obtain equity values, calculated using the maximum performance of submitted systems for each language in a task. For languages that are not supported by any dataset, we assume the system performance to be zero. The global equity values for each task are in Table 2. Apart from the above, we keep track of system performances (F1/Accuracy/BLEU etc.). For each task, we take the system output with the highest performance among all system outputs with the same language, and provide a ranking of languages with the highest system performances. We also maintain a ranking of most under-served languages (sorted based on utilities), for reasons detailed below. 2.3 Incentivization: Reward Improvement We can estimate current global progress in language technologies using the demographic and lin- guistic weighted global averages, and the global equity values. In GlobalBench, we also encourage development of systems that improve upon these metrics. We accomplish this in two ways: First, we identify areas with the greatest potential for improvement, i.e., we identify the most under-served languages. We choose a parameter of τ = 0.4 to better strike a balance between demographic- and linguistic-weighted utility. Languages farthest from the ideal τ -weighted utility are expected to be most under-served. Hence, (1− τ -weighted utility) of a language gives us this measure. We sort each of the 6671 languages supported in GlobalBench according to this measure. Therefore, we obtain a ranking of languages with relatively high population and relatively low scores, broken down by task. Second, a submission’s rank on our leaderboard is determined by how much it contributes to increasing the overall τ -weighted utility across languages. This can be achieved in two ways: i) Data Efforts: By contributing datasets for previously unsupported languages, their utility, which was previously immeasurable (hence, for all practical purposes, zero), sees a sharp rise; ii) Improved Systems: By submitting new systems which improve upon the state-of-the-art, we improve utility by definition (Equation 3).