Title: Active Retrieval Augmented Generation
Authors: Zhengbao Jiang, Frank F. Xu, Luyu Gao, Zhiqing Sun, Qian Liu, Jane Dwivedi-Yu, Yiming Yang, Jamie Callan, Graham Neubig
Section: D Prompts and Few-shot exemplars
the Way I Feel) was the first number one hit for Roy Orbison in the UK and Ireland. Given an ambiguous question and a hint on which aspect of the question is ambiguous, figure out its interpretations and answer them one by one. Question: What is the criminal’s name in the breakfast club? Hint: This question is ambiguous in terms of which specific name is being referred to - the character’s name or the actor’s name. Answer: In order to figure out its interpretations, we need to consider both possibilities: the character’s name or the actor’s name. Therefore, this question has 2 interpretations: (1) What is the criminal’s character name in The Breakfast Club? (2) What is the the name of the actor who played the criminal in The Breakfast Club? The answers to all interpretations are: (1) John Bender was the name of the criminal’s character in The Breakfast Club. (2) Judd Nelson was the actor of the criminal in The Breakfast Club. Given an ambiguous question and a hint on which aspect of the question is ambiguous, figure out its interpretations and answer them one by one. Question: How many state parks are there in virginia? Hint: This question is ambiguous in terms of the time frame or period being referred to. Answer: Prompt D.10: exemplars of WikiAsp Generate a summary about Aslanhane Mosque including the following aspects: location, history with one aspect per line. # Location The mosque is in the old quarter of ankara next to ankara castle. With an altitude of 947 metres (3,107 ft) it overlooks ankara at 39°56’12"N 32°51’55"E. # History The mosque is one of the oldest mosques in Turkey still standing. It was built during the reign of Mesud II of the Anatolian Seljuks in 1290. Its architect was Ebubekir Mehmet. It was commissioned by two Ahi leaders named Hüsamettin and Hasaneddin. However, in 1330, it was repaired by another Ahi leader named Şerafettin after whom the mosque was named. After several minor repairs the mosque was restored by the directorate general of foundations in 2010-2013 term. Generate a summary about Untold Legends: The Warrior’s Code including the following aspects: reception, gameplay, development with one aspect per line. # Reception The game received "mixed or average reviews" according to video game review aggregator Metacritic. # Gameplay The warrior’s code is a hack n’ slash action role-playing game, which concentrates on action-oriented combat. # Development As a pre-order bonus, the game was shipped with a small action figure of the Guardian class.