Title: DataFinder: Scientific Dataset Recommendation from Natural Language Descriptions
Authors: Vijay Viswanathan, Luyu Gao, Tongshuang Wu, Pengfei Liu, Graham Neubig
Section: A Few-Shot Prompt for Generating Keyphrases and Queries
KITTI odometry and tracking benchmark for scene flow estimation based on grid map sequences. We show that we can improve accuracy and convergence when applying motion and spatial consistency regularization. Output: (Task | Modality | Domain | Training Style | Text Length | Language Required | Single-Sentence Summary) Task: optical flow estimation Modality: images and top-view grid map sequences Domain: autonomous driving Training Style: unsupervised Text Length: N/A Language Required: N/A Single-Sentence Summary: A system for selfsupervised optical flow estimation from images and top-down maps. – Abstract: In this paper, we study the actor-action semantic segmentation problem, which requires joint labeling of both actor and action categories in video frames. One major challenge for this task is that when an actor performs an action, different body parts of the actor provide different types of cues for the action category and may receive inconsistent action labeling when they are labeled independently. To address this issue, we propose an end-to-end region-based actor-action segmentation approach which relies on region masks from an instance segmentation algorithm. Our main novelty is to avoid labeling pixels in a region mask independently - instead we assign a single action label to these pixels to achieve consistent action labeling. When a pixel belongs to multiple region masks, max pooling is applied to resolve labeling conflicts. Our approach uses a two-stream network as the front-end (which learns features capturing both appearance and motion information), and uses two region-based segmentation networks as the back-end (which takes the fused features from the two-stream network as the input and predicts actor-action labeling). Experiments on the A2D dataset demonstrate that both the region-based segmentation strategy and the fused features from the two-stream network contribute to the performance improvements. The proposed approach outperforms the state-of-the-art results by more than 8 Output: (Task | Modality | Domain | Training Style | Text Length | Language Required | SingleSentence Summary) Task: actor-action semantic segmentation Modality: video Domain: N/A Training Style: fully supervised Text Length: N/A Language Required: N/A Single-Sentence Summary: I want to train a supervised model for actor-action semantic segmentation from video. – For a given abstract that we want to process, we then add this abstract’s text to this prompt and ask the language model to generate at most 250 new tokens. B Information on Expert Annotations As mentioned in §3, we recruited 27 graduate students, faculty, and recent graduate program alumni for our annotation collection process. For each annotator, we received their verbal or written interest in participating in our data collection. We