Title: Active Retrieval Augmented Generation
Authors: Zhengbao Jiang, Frank F. Xu, Luyu Gao, Zhiqing Sun, Qian Liu, Jane Dwivedi-Yu, Yiming Yang, Jamie Callan, Graham Neubig
Section: D Prompts and Few-shot exemplars
The prompt used to linearize multiple documents is shown in Prompt D.1. The prompt used in selfask (Press et al., 2022) is shown in Prompt D.2. Prompts and exemplars of different tasks/datasets are shown in Prompt D.3, D.4, D.5, D.6, D.8, and D.10, respectively. Prompt D.1: document formatting Search results: [1] Document 1 [2] Document 2 ... The user input x Prompt D.2: multihop QA with self-ask Question: Who lived longer, Theodor Haecker or Harry Vaughan Watkins? Are follow up questions needed here: Yes. Follow up: How old was Theodor Haecker when he died? Intermediate answer: Theodor Haecker was 65 years old when he died. Follow up: How old was Harry Vaughan Watkins when he died? Intermediate answer: Harry Vaughan Watkins was 69 years old when he died. So the final answer is: Harry Vaughan Watkins. Prompt D.3: retrieval instructions for 2WikiMultihopQA Skill 1. Use the Search API to look up relevant information by writing “[Search(term)]” where “term” is the search term you want to look up. For example: Question: But what are the risks during production of nanomaterials? Answer (with Search): [Search(nanomaterial production risks)] Some nanomaterials may give rise to various kinds of lung damage. Question: The colors on the flag of Ghana have the following meanings. Answer (with Search): Red is for [Search(Ghana flag red meaning)] the blood of martyrs, green for forests, and gold for mineral wealth. Question: Metformin is the first-line drug for what? Answer (with Search): [Search(Metformin first-line drug)] patients with type 2 diabetes and obesity. Skill 2. Answer questions by thinking step-by-step. First, write out the reasoning steps, then draw the conclusion. For example: Question: When did the director of film Hypocrite (Film) die? Answer (with step-by-step): The film Hypocrite was directed by Miguel Morayta. Miguel Morayta died on 19 June 2013. So the answer is 19 June 2013. Question: Are both Kurram Garhi and Trojkrsti located in the same country? Answer (with step-by-step): Kurram Garhi is located in the country of Pakistan. Trojkrsti is located in the country of Republic of Macedonia. Thus, they are not in the same country. So the answer is no. Question: Do director of film Coolie No. 1 (1995 Film) and director of film The Sensational Trial have the same nationality? Answer (with step-by-step): Coolie No. 1 (1995 film) was directed by David Dhawan. The Sensational Trial was directed by Karl Freund. David Dhawan’s nationality is India. Karl Freund’s nationality is Germany. Thus, they do not have the same nationality. So the answer is no. Question: Who is