Title: Active Retrieval Augmented Generation
Authors: Zhengbao Jiang, Frank F. Xu, Luyu Gao, Zhiqing Sun, Qian Liu, Jane Dwivedi-Yu, Yiming Yang, Jamie Callan, Graham Neubig
Section: D Prompts and Few-shot exemplars
Generate a summary about Raid on St. Augustine including the following aspects: aftermath, background with one aspect per line. # Aftermath Once the English had gone Menéndez and the rest of the Spanish settlers returned to find a smoldering ruins and very little left. He soon and begged for help from the viceroy of Cuba and the settlement took a while to build itself back up. The destroyed fort was replaced with the present day Castillo de San Marcos. # Background War had already been unofficially declared by Philip II of Spain after the Treaty of Nonsuch in which Elizabeth I had offered her support to the rebellious Protestant Dutch rebels. The Queen through Francis Walsingham ordered Sir Francis Drake to lead an expedition to attack the Spanish New World in a kind of preemptive strike. Sailing from Plymouth, England, he struck first at Santiago in November 1585 then across the Atlantic at the Spanish new world city of Santo Domingo of which was captured and ransomed on 1 January 1586 and following that successfully attacked the important city of Cartagena on 19 February. Drake wanted to strike at another Spanish city on the Main before finally visiting and replenishing Sir Walter Raleigh’s new colony of Roanoke Colony on the American East Coast. Then after this he hoped to make the Transatlantic crossing back to England. The fleet headed north, and in late April Drake put into the Spanish Cuban mainland and his men dug wells in search of fresh water and gathered supplies to help counter an outbreak of dysentery after which he moved on. The fleet traveled north within sight of land on the Florida peninsula sailing past the West coast. On 27 May 1586 as they approached further north a small fort was spotted on the shore, with a small inlet close by. This was the location of St Augustine, the most northerly town in Spain’s New World Empire, and the oldest permanent colonial settlement in North America. Drake knew of the place and was also aware of the fact that the spanish under Pedro Menéndez de Avilés had ordered all of the French Huguenot colonists that had tried to settle in the area executed. Drake decided on one final opportunity to raid and plunder, and a chance to avenge his fellow Protestants. Generate a summary about Lakewood (Livingston, Alabama) including the following aspects: architecture, history with one aspect per line. # Architecture The house has a plan that is relatively rare in early Alabama architecture. The