Title: Active Retrieval Augmented Generation
Authors: Zhengbao Jiang, Frank F. Xu, Luyu Gao, Zhiqing Sun, Qian Liu, Jane Dwivedi-Yu, Yiming Yang, Jamie Callan, Graham Neubig
Section: D Prompts and Few-shot exemplars
the USA by population? (2) What is the second largest city in the USA by area? The answers to all interpretations are: (1) The second largest city in the USA by population is Los Angeles, California. (2) The second largest city in the USA by area is Juneau, Alaska. Given an ambiguous question, figure out its interpretations and answer them one by one. Question: When was bohemian rhapsody released as a single? Answer: This question is ambiguous in terms of which country’s release of the single is being referred to. In order to figure out its interpretations, we need to consider different countries where Bohemian Rhapsody is released. Bohemian Rhapsody was released in the United Kingdom and in the United States on different dates. Therefore, this question has 2 interpretations: (1) When was Bohemian Rhapsody released as a single in the United Kingdom? (2) When was Bohemian Rhapsody released as a single in the United States? The answers to all interpretations are: (1) Bohemian Rhapsody was released as a single in the United Kingdom on 31 October 1975. (2) Bohemian Rhapsody was released as a single in the United States on December 1975. Given an ambiguous question, figure out its interpretations and answer them one by one. Question: Where do the philadelphia eagles play their home games? Answer: This question is ambiguous in terms of which specific location or venue is being referred to. In order to figure out its interpretations, we need to consider the different possible locations or venues that could be considered the home field of the Philadelphia Eagles. These include the city, the sports complex, or the stadium. Therefore, this question has 3 interpretations: (1) What city do the Philadelphia Eagles play their home games? (2) In what sports complex do the Philadelphia Eagles play their home games? (3) What stadium do the Philadelphia Eagles play their home games? The answers to all interpretations are: (1) Philadelphia Eagles play their home games in the city Philadelphia. (2) Philadelphia Eagles play their home games in the South Philadelphia Sports Complex. (3) Philadelphia Eagles play their home games in the Lincoln Financial Field stadium. Given an ambiguous question, figure out its interpretations and answer them one by one. Question: When did xbox one come out in australia? Answer: This question is ambiguous in terms of which specific version of the Xbox One is being referred to. In order to figure out its interpretations, we need to consider the different versions of the Xbox One that have been released.