Title: CSurF: Sparse Lexical Retrieval through Contextualized Surface Forms
Authors: Zhen Fan, Luyu Gao, Jamie Callan
Section: 6 CONCLUSION
This paper proposes CSurF, which performs sparse lexicon-based retrieval through constructing and matching Contextualized Surface Forms. Its retrieval process combines efficient surface form exact match and fine-grained contextualized semantic scoring, which leads to maximized model capacity while maintaining the simplicity and efficiency of exact-match-based retrieval systems. CSurF extends current term-weight based learned sparse retrieval approaches with vector term representations. On experiments across multiple datasets and retrieval settings, CSurF is able to simultaneously bridge the vocabulary and semantic mismatch in exact-match retrieval, and achieve state-of-the-art retrieval performance for lexical exact-match systems. Ablation studies and analysis further demonstrate CSurF’s ability to jointly expandmeaningful surface forms and ground surface forms to underlying semantics, which leads to increased model capacity. We also propose a simple interpolation approach in out-of-domain retrieval settings, to analyze the effect of original text vs. expanded surface forms as well as the quality of lexical form expansion on different retrieval tasks. Compared to all-to-all soft-match retrievers, CSurF achieves comparable performance across all retrieval tasks as an exact-matchbased retrieval system. CSurF is able to learn sparse connections of the original query and document terms, resolving the key efficiency issue of lexical soft-match. The retrieval efficiency of CSurF can also be further optimized with different approaches including training regularization adjustment, post-hoc index pruning, and vector representation approximation or dimension control, without significantly affecting retrieval accuracy. We hope this work encourages more research on building effective, efficient, robust and knowledge-enhanced sparse retrieval systems in the real world, as well as exploring the connection and distinction among current retrieval frameworks and systems.