Title: Active Retrieval Augmented Generation
Authors: Zhengbao Jiang, Frank F. Xu, Luyu Gao, Zhiqing Sun, Qian Liu, Jane Dwivedi-Yu, Yiming Yang, Jamie Callan, Graham Neubig
Section: D Prompts and Few-shot exemplars
nationality. So the answer is no. Question: Who is Boraqchin (Wife Of Ögedei)’s father-in-law? Answer: Boraqchin is married to Ögedei Khan. Ögedei Khan’s father is Genghis Khan. Thus, Boraqchin’s father-in-law is Genghis Khan. So the answer is Genghis Khan. Question: Who was born first out of Martin Hodge and Ivania Martinich? Answer: Martin Hodge was born on 4 February 1959. Ivania Martinich was born on 25 July 1995. Thus, Martin Hodge was born first. So the answer is Martin Hodge. Question: When did the director of film Laughter In Hell die? Answer: The film Laughter In Hell was directed by Edward L. Cahn. Edward L. Cahn died on August 25, 1963. So the answer is August 25, 1963. Question: Which film has the director died later, The Gal Who Took the West or Twenty Plus Two? Answer: The film Twenty Plus Two was directed by Joseph M. Newman. The Gal Who Took the West was directed by Frederick de Cordova. Joseph M. Newman died on January 23, 2006. Fred de Cordova died on September 15, 2001. Thus, the person to die later from the two is Twenty Plus Two. So the answer is Twenty Plus Two. Question: Who is the grandchild of Krishna Shah (Nepalese Royal)? Answer: Krishna Shah has a child named Rudra Shah. Rudra Shah has a child named Prithvipati Shah. Thus, Krishna Shah has a grandchild named Prithvipati Shah. So the answer is Prithvipati Shah. Question: Which country the director of film Citizen Mavzik is from? Answer: Prompt D.5: exemplars of StrategyQA Generate a yes or no answer to the following question. Question: Do hamsters provide food for any animals? Answer: Hamsters are prey animals. Prey are food for predators. Thus, hamsters provide food for some animals. So the final answer is yes. Generate a yes or no answer to the following question. Question: Could Brooke Shields succeed at University of Pennsylvania? Answer: Brooke Shields went to Princeton University. Princeton University is about as academically rigorous as the University of Pennsylvania. Thus, Brooke Shields could also succeed at the University of Pennsylvania. So the final answer is yes. Generate a yes or no answer to the following question. Question: Hydrogen’s atomic number squared exceeds number of Spice Girls? Answer: Hydrogen has an atomic number of 1. 1 squared is 1. There are 5 Spice Girls. Thus, Hydrogen’s atomic number squared is less than 5. So the final answer is no. Generate a yes or no answer to the following question. Question: Is it common to see frost