Title: Active Retrieval Augmented Generation
Authors: Zhengbao Jiang, Frank F. Xu, Luyu Gao, Zhiqing Sun, Qian Liu, Jane Dwivedi-Yu, Yiming Yang, Jamie Callan, Graham Neubig
Section: D Prompts and Few-shot exemplars
Xbox One has two versions: the Xbox One video game console or the Xbox One X high-end model. Therefore, this question has 2 interpretations: (1) When did the Xbox One release in Australia? (2) When did the Xbox One X release in Australia? The answers to all interpretations are: (1) The Xbox One video game console was released in Australia on November 22, 2013. (2) The Xbox One X video game console was released in Australia on November 7, 2017. Given an ambiguous question, figure out its interpretations and answer them one by one. Question: When does the movie summer of 84 come out? Answer: This question is ambiguous in terms of which release of the movie is being referred to. In order to figure out its interpretations, we need to consider different releases of the movie Summer of ’84. The movie Summer of ’84 is first released at the Sundance Festival before it’s released throughout the US. Therefore, this question has 2 interpretations: (1) When did the movie Summer of ’84 first release at the Sundance Festival? (2) When did the movie Summer of ’84 first release throughout the US? The answers to all interpretations are: (1) Summer of ’84 was released at the Sundance Festival on January 22, 2018. (2) Summer of ’84 was released throughout the US on August 10, 2018. Prompt D.7: exemplars of ASQA (cont.) Given an ambiguous question, figure out its interpretations and answer them one by one. Question: What was roy orbison’s first number one hit? Answer: This question is ambiguous in terms of which specific chart or region is being referred to. In order to figure out its interpretations, we need to consider the different charts and regions where Roy Orbison’s music was popular. Roy Orbison is popular in both the US Hot 100 and Canada, and the UK and Ireland. Therefore, this question has 2 interpretations: (1) What was Roy Orbison’s first number one hit in the US Hot 100 and Canada? (2) What was Roy Orbison’s first number one hit in the UK and Ireland? The answers to all interpretations are: (1) Running Scared was the first number one hit for Roy Orbison in the US Hot 100 and Canada. (2) Only the Lonely (Know the Way I Feel) was the first number one hit for Roy Orbison in the UK and Ireland. Given an ambiguous question, figure out its interpretations and answer them one by one. Question: What is the criminal’s name in the breakfast club? Answer: This question