Title: Beyond Single-Mindedness: A Figure-Ground Reversal for the Cognitive Sciences
Authors: Mark Dingemanse, Andreas Liesenfeld, Marlou Rasenberg, Saul Albert, Felix K. Ameka, Abeba Birhane, Dimitris Bolis, Justine Cassell, Rebecca Clift, Elena Cuffari, Hanne De Jaegher, Catarina Dutilh Novaes, N. J. Enfield, Riccardo Fusaroli, Eleni Gregoromichelaki, Edwin Hutchins, Ivana Konvalinka, Damian Milton, Joanna Rączaszek-Leonardi, Vasudevi Reddy, Federico Rossano, David Schlangen, Johanna Seibt, Elizabeth Stokoe, Lucy Suchman, Cordula Vesper, Thalia Wheatley, Martina Wiltschko
Section: 4 of 8 M. Dingemanse et al. / Cognitive Science 47 (2023)
the cognitive sciences around interacting minds. Are there any aspects of cognition that can fully be understood from the perspective of single minds? We do not know, but we submit that a reversal of the burden of evidence is in order. The watershed divide between the mental and the social has always been at best a convenient fiction (Shteynberg, 2014). As we come to terms with forms of cognition not centered on single brains, interaction looms large as the crucial connective tissue: ontologically prior, epistemologically fundamental, ecologically sound. As the cognitive sciences enter their next phase, interaction will be core to the enterprise of understanding how minds are made. Author Note Conception and initial draft by MD with AL and MR; revised with contributions from FKA, SA, AB, DB, JC, RC, EC, HDJ, CDN, NJE, RF, EH, IK, DM, JRL, VR, FR, LS, ES, TTW; final revision read and approved by all. Contributors were invited with interdisciplinary and intersectional diversity in mind; as a collective, we represent only a cross-section of larger waves of like-minded work within and beyond the cognitive sciences. Author Affiliations Mark Dingemanse, Andreas Liesenfeld and Marlou Rasenberg — Centre for Language Studies, Radboud University; Marlou Rasenberg — Max Planck Institute for Psycholinguistics; Saul Albert and Elizabeth Stokoe — Discourse and Rhetoric Group, Loughborough University; Felix K. Ameka — Centre for Linguistics, Leiden University; Abeba Birhane — Mozilla Foundation; Abeba Birhane — School of Computer Science, University College Dublin; Dimitris Bolis — Independent Max Planck Research Group for Social Neuroscience, Max Planck Institute of Psychiatry; Dimitris Bolis — National Institute for Physiological Sciences; Justine Cassell — School of Computer Science, Carnegie Mellon University; Justine Cassell — Paris Artificial Intelligence Research Institute; Rebecca Clift — Department of Language and Linguistics, University of Essex; Elena Cuffari — Department of Psychology, Franklin and Marshall College; Hanne De Jaegher — IAS-Research Center for Mind, Life and Society, Department of Philosophy, University of the Basque Country (UPV/EHU); Catarina Dutilh Novaes — Department of Philosophy, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam; Catarina Dutilh Novaes — Arché, University of St. Andrews; N. J. Enfield — Department of Linguistics, The University of Sydney; Riccardo Fusaroli and Cordula Vesper — Department of Linguistics, Cognitive Science & Semiotics, Aarhus University; Riccardo Fusaroli and Cordula Vesper — Interacting Minds Centre, Aarhus University; Riccardo Fusaroli — Linguistic Data Consortium, University of Pennsylvania; Eleni Gregoromichelaki — Linguistics and Theory of Science, University of Gothenburg; Edwin Hutchins — Department of Cognitive Science, University of California San Diego; Ivana Konvalinka — Section for Cognitive Systems,