Title: MCM6 is a Poor Prognostic Biomarker and Promotes Progression in Breast Cancer
Authors: Zi Lei, Peng Wang, Da-qi Jia, Lei-lei Li, Yi-peng Wu, Yuan Yang, Guo-qing Pan, Taeg Kyu Kwon
Section: 3.6 MCM6 Knockdown Inhibited the Proliferation of Breast Cancer Cells
role in breast cancer remains unknown. By using GSEA, the study clarified the fact that overexpression of MCM6 promotes tumor progression mainly through the JAK-STAT3, mTOR myc, PI3K-AKT ERBB and p53 signaling pathways, which are closely related to tumorigenesis. Liu et al. [21] reported that MCM6 activates the MEK-ERK signaling pathway to promote the metastasis of liver cancer. We found that MCM6 overexpression is also related to the reg- ulation of ubiquitination proteolysis, and whether MCM6 is involved in these signaling pathways has not been reported. Notably, MCM6 is involved in mismatch repair, which is consistent with the findings of Sherman et al. [35] reported that MCM6 was an important regulatory factor in the DNA replication system through complex formation with other MCM6 proteins to regulate DNA replication of the cell cycle in the carcinogenic process. In addition, our results indicated that the increased MCM6 expression had a bearing on cytotoxic effects of B-cell and T-cell receptor pathways and natural killer cells. Recent studies have shown that MCM6 functions to obstruct immune progression by reducing the immune response in microglial cells [14]. Therefore, MCM6 may be the key mediator of the immune response. We analyzed the relationship between MCM6 expression and immune checkpoint-related genes and immune cells. The results demonstrated thatMCM6 displayed positive relevance with many immune checkpoint-related genes and negative correlation with BTNL9 in breast cancer, which has not been reported before and is worthy of further exploration. Whether MCM6 can affect the function of these immune checkpoints in breast cancer needs further study. Given that MCM6 is key to the progression of breast carcinoma, we further explored the correlation between MCM6 and breast cancer-related chemotherapy drugs for therapy. Two potential drugs, PD-0332991 and trametinib, which are more sensitive when MCM6 is highly expressed, were screened out from breast cancer-related chemotherapy drugs. PD-0332991 is an inhibitor of CDK4 and CDK6 with oral activity and has antiproliferative activity on cancer cells, inducing their cell cycle arrest [36]. In addition, PD0332991 guided the apoptosis of diffuse large B-cell lymphoma cells in a dose-dependent manner [37]. Studies have shown that PD-0332991 can be used for hormone (ER/PR)positive and HER2-negative breast cancer [38]. Trametinib is an effective reversibility inhibitor of MEK 1/2 that restrains cell proliferation by blocking the MAPK pathway [39]. The FDA has approved trametinib combined with dabrafenib for patients with metastatic melanoma who have the BRAF V600E/K mutation [40]. Our results indicated that keener sensitivity to PD-0332991 and trametinib can be found in patients with overexpression of MCM6, which can