Title: Hence, Socrates is mortal: A Benchmark for Natural Language Syllogistic Reasoning
Authors: Yongkang Wu, Meng Han, Yutao Zhu, Lei Li, Xinyu Zhang, Ruofei Lai, Xiaoguang Li, Yuanhang Ren, Zhicheng Dou, Zhao Cao
Section: I Case Study
All truck cranes are not human. Prediction: Some apparatus are not truck cranes. Hypothetical Syllogism Premise 1: What you might do in class is sleep. Premise 2: A dream is something that can happen to you while you retire for the night. Conclusion: You’re most likely daydreaming in class. Prediction: When you attend class, you may have a dream. Hypothetical Syllogism Premise 1: When you make progress in your project, you may want to celebrate. Premise 2: Having a party is a good choice if you want to celebrate. Conclusion: You may want to have a party if you achieve great progress in your project. Prediction: Celebrating has the effect of bringing people together. Disjunctive Syllogism Premise 1: Newspapers are generally published daily or weekly. Premise 2: Some newspapers are not published weekly. Conclusion: Some newspapers are daily newspapers. Prediction: Some newspapers are generally published daily. Disjunctive Syllogism Premise 1: There is still controversy about whether there are ghosts in the world. Premise 2: The man is an atheist. Conclusion: The man thinks that there is no ghost in the world. Prediction: There are ghosts in the world. Polysyllogism Premise 1: Some movies are not cartoon movies. Premise 2: Science fiction animations belong to animated films. Premise 3: Remake films are also films. Conclusion: Some remakes are out of scope of science fiction cartoons. Prediction: It exists some remakes are out of scope of science fiction cartoon. Polysyllogism Premise 1: All Pierce Brosnan are human. Premise 2: No human is a beast. Premise 3: Some Pierce Brosnan are not machines. Conclusion: Some machines are not beasts. Prediction: Some Pierce Brosnan are not beasts. Complex Syllogism Premise 1: Fencing requires wearing a protective mask and gloves. Premise 2: The woman is fencing and wearing a wiremesh mask. Conclusion: The woman is also wearing gloves. Prediction: The woman may be wearing gloves. Complex Syllogism Premise 1: If Jack has computer skills and programming knowledge, he could write programs. Premise 2: Jack cannot write computer programs, but he can use computers. Conclusion: Jack does not have programming knowledge. Prediction: He can write computer programs. ACL 2023 Responsible NLP Checklist