Title: Antimicrobial properties of heterojunction BiSnSbO6-ZnO composites in wastewater treatment
Authors: Jing Chen, Shichuan Zhang
Section: 
BiSnSbO6-ZnO composite photocatalytic material and the control group (p > 0.05). This can explain the non-cytotoxicity of BiSnSbO6-ZnO composite photocatalytic material. However, the survival rate of L929 cells incubated with monomeric ZnO at a concentration of 500 mg/L was signi cantly reduced, which was signi cantly different from that of the blank control group (p < 0.05). 3.3. Electrochemical Characterization Figure 9 showed the UV-vis DRS spectra of BiSnSbO6, ZnO and BiSnSbO6-ZnO. It can be seen from Fig. 9(a) that ZnO absorbs light with a wavelength below 400 nm, mainly absorbing ultraviolet light, and the absorption band edges of BiSnSbO6 and BiSnSbO6-ZnO are above 400 nm, indicating that they are responsive to visible light. With the addition of ZnO, the light absorption intensity of BiSnSbO6-ZnO was enhanced. The band gap energy (Eg) can be estimated according to the formula: hv = A(hv-Eg)n/2 (L. Yose et al. 2018; S. Y. Li et al. 2014). Since ZnO is a direct transition semiconductor material, n = 2 in the calculation process (R. Kumar et al. 2014). From Fig. 9(b), (c), (d), it can be concluded that the BiSnSbO6ZnO composite photocatalytic material, the forbidden band widths of BiSnSbO6 and ZnO materials are 2.81 eV, 2.66 eV and 3.14 eV, respectively. This is similar to the data reported in the previous literature (J. F. Luan et al. 2018). The EVB and ECB edge potentials of BiSnSbO6 and ZnO calculated according to the formula are shown in Table 1. According to the edge potentials of EVB and ECB, BiSnSbO6-ZnO composites belong to type II heterojunction structure composites. Table 1 Eg, EVB and ECB values of BiSnSbO6and ZnO photocatalytic materials Page 10/31 Photocatalysts Eg (eV) EVB (eV) ECB (eV) BiSnSbO6 2.80 3.23 0.57 ZnO 3.14 2.83 -0.31 Semiconductor photocatalytic materials can understand the interfacial mobility of photogenerated electron-hole pairs in semiconductor materials through electrochemical impedance, where the smaller the radius of the semicircle arc, the higher the charge transport e ciency of semiconductor photocatalytic materials. As shown in Fig. 10, compared with pure BiSnSbO6 and pure ZnO materials, BiSnSbO6-ZnO composite photocatalytic material has the smallest arc radius, indicating that BiSnSbO6-ZnO composite photocatalytic material has the smallest charge transfer resistance. Therefore, the BiSnSbO6-ZnO composite photocatalytic material has the strongest photocatalytic antibacterial performance. Figure 11 is the PT map of different photocatalytic materials under intermittent illumination conditions. The photocurrent of the BiSnSbO6-ZnO composite photocatalytic material is stronger than that of the two single materials. The higher the photocurrent intensity, the faster the separation rate of electron-hole pairs. It shows