Title: Antimicrobial properties of heterojunction BiSnSbO6-ZnO composites in wastewater treatment
Authors: Jing Chen, Shichuan Zhang
Section: 
et al. 2017; Z. L. Wang et al. 2004; V. E. Podasca et al. 2016; T. Wang et al. 2018; E. Rokhsat et al. 2016). In the past ten years, due to the advantages of narrow band gap, low price, and wide light absorption range, bismuth-based photocatalytic materials have entered people's eld of vision as a visible light catalytic material with excellent performance (R. J. Ma et al. 2018; C. Wu et al. 2019; M. R. Kamli et al. 2021). There has been signi cant research progress in theoretical research and practical application of bismuth-based photocatalytic materials (R. A. Rather et al. 2020). The research on binary and multicomponent bismuth-based photocatalytic composite materials has gradually deepened, and its application in various elds has gradually become wider. However, there is still no systematic conclusion about its speci c photocatalytic mechanism, and the research on the reaction mechanism and energy band structure of bismuth-based photocatalytic composites still needs to be strengthened. In 2019, researchers synthesized β-AgVO3/BiVO4 composite visible light catalytic antibacterial material. After being excited by visible light irradiation, β-AgVO3/BiVO4 composite material showed strong resistance to P. aeruginosa (Z. B. Xiang et al. 2019). The photocatalytic antibacterial activity, which can be attributed to the formation of a heterojunction structure in the β-AgVO3/BiVO4 composite, greatly improves the separation degree and lifetime of photogenerated charges in the composite (Z. B. Xiang et al. 2019). In 2018, Jingfei Luan et al. synthesized BiSnSbO6, which has a pyrochlore structure and has photocatalytic degradation activity for BZT and RhB under visible light irradiation (J. F. Luan et al. 2018). The surface of pyrochlore structural materials has more oxygen vacancies, which can improve the photon e ciency, and has shown great potential in the eld of photocatalysis applications. However, the problem of Bi-based photocatalytic material BiSnSbO6 is that it can only absorb and utilize visible light, which greatly reduces its application range and limits its application. In this work, a simple solid-phase sintering method was used to synthesize BiSnSbO6 materials, and then different ratios of BiSnSbO6-ZnO composite photocatalytic materials were prepared by changing the molar ratio. The crystal structure characteristics and photoelectric properties of the prepared BiSnSbO6ZnO composite photocatalytic materials were investigated by XRD, EDS, SEM, EIS and other characterization methods. E. coli, S. aureus, P. aeruginosa and Candida albicans were used as model bacteria, to explore the antibacterial activity of BiSnSbO6-ZnO composite photocatalytic material under Page 4/31 LED light illumination. Using L929 cells as model cells, in vitro cytotoxicity experiments were carried out. In order to understand