Title: Antimicrobial properties of heterojunction BiSnSbO6-ZnO composites in wastewater treatment
Authors: Jing Chen, Shichuan Zhang
Section: 
by UV-vis DRS (Varian Cary 500). EIS and PT tests were performed on an electrochemical workstation (CHI660E). 2.5. Photocatalytic antibacterial performance experiment The photocatalytic antibacterial activities of the composites against E. coli, S. aureus, P. aeruginosa and Candida albicans were determined by plate colony counting method. All glassware were sterilised at 121°C for 20 min before the experiments were carried out. All experiments were performed in triplicate. Materials with different experimental concentrations are set for experiments. Too low or too high experimental concentrations are not conducive to the photocatalytic reaction. Therefore, it is particularly important to choose the most excellent concentration of antibacterial. In this experiment, four different concentrations were set from low to high, and the concentrations of BiSnSbO6-ZnO composite photocatalytic materials were 125 mg/L, 250 mg/L, 500 mg/L and 1000 mg/L, respectively. Weigh samples of different masses and add them to beakers, add 0.9% NaCl solution to dilute, and ultrasonically disperse them evenly. Pipette the bacterial solution from the cultured bacterial solution and add it to the beaker containing the sample, so that the bacteria and the material are fully contacted. A 35W LED light was used as the light source to irradiate vertically downward, and the stirring was maintained at a xed speed throughout the experiment. Bacteria were cultured at 37°C for 18 h, fungi were cultured at 28°C for 48 h, and the colonies on the medium were counted to calculate the photocatalytic antibacterial rate. 2.6. In vitro cytotoxicity assay The biosafety of BiSnSbO6-ZnO composite photocatalytic antibacterial materials was tested by in vitro cytotoxicity experiments, and normal mouse skin broblasts (L929) were selected for cytotoxicity detection of different materials. About 5000 cells were added to each well of a 96-well plate, cultured for 12 h, and 100 µL of material solutions of different concentrations were added to each well. After 24 hours of culture, 10% MTT solution was added, and the culture was terminated after 4 hours. After that, DMSO was added. The absorbance (OD) was measured at 490 nm in an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay to calculate the cell viability. 2.7. SEM study of bacterial surface morphology SEM study was used to observe the differences in structure and morphology of bacteria and fungi treated with and without materials under light conditions, which more intuitively explained the in uence of BiSnSbO6-ZnO composite photocatalytic materials on the production of pathogenic microorganisms. Bacterial samples were xed with 2.5% glutaraldehyde solution, washed with PBS, dehydrated with different concentrations of ethanol gradient for 15 min/time, and nally replaced with isoamyl acetate