Title: Polydopamine-functionalized selenium nanoparticles as an efficient photoresponsive antibacterial platform
Authors: Meng Sun, Ping Gao, Bao Wang, Xiangyang Li, Donghan Shao, Yan Xu, Leijiao Li, Yunhui Li, Jianwei Zhu, Wenliang Li, Yingxue Xue
Section: 
ROS under irradiation from a near-infrared laser. High temperature and ROS can directly damage the bacterial cell wall and membrane system, release the bacterial cytoplasmic matrix, affect its metabolism, and lead to the death of the bacteria. Biological security is the primary requirement for further advances in the application of antibacterials. Therefore, the safety ofSe@PDA-ICG was veried by a series of experiments before in vivo antimicrobial assays. The effect of Se@PDA-ICG Fig. 5 In vivo antibacterial activity of Se@PDA-ICG under wound healing healing in mice treated with PBS and Se@PDA-ICG. (B) Changes in the r treatment. (C) Photographs of colonies of tissue homogenates from eac 10002 | RSC Adv., 2023, 13, 9998–10004 on haemoglobin was rst assessed by haemolysis assays. As shown in Fig. S7A and B,† the haemolysis rate was only 0.9% even at Se@PDA-ICG concentrations up to 600 mg mL−1. The cytocompatibility of Se@PDA-ICG was then determined by an MTT assay using mouse broblasts (L929 and NIH 3T3 cells) and the viability of both cells was above 90%when Se@PDA-ICG concentrations reached 300 mg mL−1 (Fig. S8†). These results indicated that the synthesized Se@PDA-ICG exhibited lower cytotoxicity and better biocompatibility than other polydopamine-modied nano-carriers of ICG. For instance, the cell survival rate was below 80% at a low concentration of 100 mg mL−1 for MONs@PDA-ICG (manganese oxide nanoowers as the core), while it was also below 80% at an even lower concentration of 40 mg mL−1 for NDs@PDA@ICG (with nanodiamonds as the subject).21,22 The biocompatibility of Se@PDAICG was further evaluated in vivo. The liver and kidney function and blood parameters of the mice were assessed aer 7 days by tail vein injection of Se@PDA-ICG (300 mg mL−1 200 mL) and the results are shown in Fig. S9.† As expected, compared with the PBS control group, the experimental group showed no signicant abnormalities. The above experiments showed that Se@PDA-ICG had excellent biocompatibility and safety. To verify the antibacterial activity of the synthesized Se@PDAICG in vivo, a wound S. aureus infection model was established in which PBS buffered solution was used as the control group. The wound model was created by infecting mice with S. aureus in a back wound and then irradiating with an NIR laser (808 1 W cm−2). As can be seen in Fig. 5A, B and S10,† the results showed model with S. aureus (1.0 × 107 CFU mL−1). (A) Photographs of wound elative wound area of mice in different treatment groups 8 days after h group of mice 8 days after treatment. © 2023 The Author(s).