Title: Provable Robust Watermarking for AI-Generated Text
Authors: Xuandong Zhao, Prabhanjan Ananth, Lei Li, Yu-Xiang Wang
Section: 1. Assume m ≥ 1, then
the dynamic threshold τ with different choices of α as shown in Equation 9. By choosing different random seeds, we obtain different green lists. The results in Figure 5 show the empirical false positive rate aligns well with the theoretical α. E.1 Alternative detection “Unique” is robust to Emoji attack and other tricky attacks Kirchenbauer et al. [2023] discussed a number of interesting attacks on the K-gram watermarks. In this section, we inspect the robustness of Unigram-Watermark (with both Algorithm 2 and 4 as Detect) to these attacks. We will focus on those trickier generative attacks, as those non-generative attacks on the surface level (e.g., synonym substitution, Unicode substitution) were rather satisfactorily addressed in Kirchenbauer et al. [2023]. The same arguments work for Unigram-Watermark. However, there are trickier ones that break K-gram watermarks for K ≥ 2 but not for K = 1, especially when we use Algorithm 4 for detection. Emoji attack the Emoji attack, also known as the Pineapple attack, asks the language model to inject a special symbol, e.g., an Emoji, in between the actual text that the LM is supposed to generate in response to a prompt. For example, a user of the language model can prompt an LM with “Write my college admission essay. Insert an emoji in between every word.”. Then the user can simply remove the artificially injected symbol before submitting the essay. Clearly, this attack breaks all K-gram watermarks for K > 1 [Kirchenbauer et al., 2023] (but also [Aaronson, 2023]). Our UnigramWatermark remains effective because half of the tokens in y are still watermarked. The repeated Emoji symbol with length n/2 is a problem for both Type I and Type II error, but after “Unique”, this corresponds to just an Edit Distance of 1 on Unique(y)! Alphabet attack We can also make the Emoji attack stronger by injecting a known sequence of “alphabets” instead of one single symbol. For example, “Write my college admission essay. Insert, in the order of the vocabulary, a token in between every word you generate.”. The alphabet attack breaks K-gram watermarks in the same way an Emoji attack does, but since the added tokens are different, “Unique” does not solve it right away. Interestingly, despite m/2 of the tokens in Unique(y) are not watermarked, as long as the Alphabet being used is independent of the secret key, it does not change the Type I error and only slightly reduces the power (i.e., 1-Type II error) since the expected number of Green tokens in that m/2 injected