Title: Hence, Socrates is mortal: A Benchmark for Natural Language Syllogistic Reasoning
Authors: Yongkang Wu, Meng Han, Yutao Zhu, Lei Li, Xinyu Zhang, Ruofei Lai, Xiaoguang Li, Yuanhang Ren, Zhicheng Dou, Zhao Cao
Section: I Case Study
audience to performing in front of or boost your ego. You can not use an audience to boost your ego. [Therefore], you can use an audience to performing in front of. rewritten sentences: When you’re in front of an audience, you can put on a show or increase your self-esteem. You cannot exaggerate your ego in front of an audience. [Therefore], you can give a performance in front of an audience. pattern: P is true or Q is true. P is not true, [Therefore], Q is true. original sentences: My flowers are ugly or pretty. My flowers are not ugly. [Therefore], My flowers are pretty. rewritten sentences: The blooms in my garden are either comely or unappealing. The blooms in my garden are not unsightly. Therefore, These flowers are indeed attractive. Table 19: GPT-3 rewriting prompts for polysyllogisms. Rewrite the following sentences to standard English. Keep the meaning of the original sentences, but change the expression of the sentences. original sentences: No hypothesis is fact. Some proposition are hypothesis. Some proposition are not fact. All proposition are abstract object. [Therefore], some abstract object are not fact. rewritten sentences: A hypothesis is a proposed explanation that differs from fact. Some propositions are hypotheses. Some propositions are proven not to be facts. Every proposition is an abstract object. [Therefore], some abstract objects do not exist as facts. original sentences: Applied science is science. No Science is art. Human science is science. Some Behavioral genetics are not human science. Behaviour genetics is psychology. Genetics is biology. [Therefore], some applied science are not biology. rewritten sentences: Applied science is science in every sense of the word. Science and art are two distinct forms of scholarship. Human science is a branch of science. Behavioral genetics does not involve any human science. Behavioral genetics is a branch of psychology. Genetics is the study of biology. [Therefore], applied science encompasses more than just biology. original sentences: All feline are animal. no plant are animal. All flowering plants are plants. All tiger are genus Panthera. [Therefore], no Panthera are flowering plants. rewritten sentences: A feline is an animal belonging to the cat family. There are many obvious differences between plants and animals. Flowering plants are plants that produce flowers and fruits. The tiger is a member of the genus Panthera. [Therefore], Panthera is different from flowering plants. original sentences: All medication are drug. All hormone are medication. All plant hormone are hormone. Some plant hormone are gibberellins. All drug are useful. All gibberellins are carboxylic acid. [Therefore], Some