Title: Antimicrobial properties of heterojunction BiSnSbO6-ZnO composites in wastewater treatment
Authors: Jing Chen, Shichuan Zhang
Section: 
after the livestock and poultry wastewater was treated by light with the BiSnSbO6-ZnO composite photocatalytic material with the optimal antibacterial concentration of 500 mg/L, with the increase of time, the colonies in the livestock and poultry wastewater diluted 20 times were obviously reduced or even disappeared. After 3 h of LED light illumination, the antibacterial rate of BiSnSbO6-ZnO composite photocatalytic material reached 99.41%. When the time was extended to 6 h, it was found that the bacteria had been completely killed. It is proved that the BiSnSbO6-ZnO composite photocatalytic material has a good antibacterial effect on a variety of coexisting bacteria, which also shows that the BiSnSbO6-ZnO composite photocatalytic material is a broad-spectrum antibacterial material, which can be applied in practical applications. 4. Conclusion BiSnSbO6-ZnO composite photocatalytic materials were synthesized by a simple solid-phase sintering method. XRD, EDS, EIS and other characterizations further proved that the BiSnSbO6-ZnO composite photocatalytic material was composed of BiSnSbO6 and ZnO, and the composite was successful and the structure did not change. Comparing the photocatalytic and antibacterial effects of composites with different molar ratios on pathogenic microorganisms under 35 W LED light. The results showed that the antibacterial effect was the best when the molar ratio of BiSnSbO6-ZnO composite was 1:4 and the concentration was 500 mg/L. The antibacterial e ciency against E. coli at 6 h can reach 99.63%, and the antibacterial e ciency of 500 mg/L BiSnSbO6-ZnO composite photocatalytic material against S. aureus and P. aeruginosa can reach 100% under illumination for 4 h. With the prolongation of the illumination time, the antibacterial e ciency of the composite materials with different concentrations against the four bacteria can reach 100% in 12 h. It shows that under the condition of maintaining light conditions, the BiSnSbO6-ZnO composite photocatalytic materials with different concentrations can continue to exert antibacterial effect to achieve good antibacterial effect. The antibacterial e ciency of 250 mg/L BiSnSbO6-ZnO composite photocatalytic material against Candida albicans can reach 63.8% after 6 h of illumination. It can be seen that the composite photocatalytic material has better antibacterial effect on bacteria. In order to further elucidate the antibacterial properties of BiSnSbO6-ZnO composite photocatalytic materials in practical applications, antibacterial experiments were conducted on livestock and poultry wastewater collected in daily life. The results show that the antibacterial rate of BiSnSbO6ZnO composite photocatalytic material to bacteria reaches 99.41% after 3 hours of LED light illumination, indicating that BiSnSbO6-ZnO composite photocatalytic material has broad-spectrum antibacterial activity against bacteria and can be widely used in real life. According to the