Title: Wavefront shaping improves the transparency of the scattering media: a review
Authors: Chunxu Ding, Rongjun Shao, Qiaozhi He, Lei S. Li, Jiamiao Yang
Section: 4 Discussion and Outlook
methods puts a significant burden on speed. WFS outside the speckle correction time window is no longer useful to correct the scattering. Apart from the speed and mode numbers, the degree of freedom of control is also a key to WFS. Multiple scattering not only confuses light into speckles of randomly distributed intensity but also disturbs the information of almost all degrees of freedom of light.51 The ultimate ideal of WFS needs to control all the information of the light, including but not limited to spatiotemporal information in the scattering process, which will truly enable the “transparency” of the scattering medium. Currently, it is still a challenge to control the complex information of all the degrees of freedom independently for existing spatial light modulators. With the development of vector vortex beams,54 spectroscopy,133 and nonlinear optics,134 this challenge can potentially be overcome. Data-driven learning-based methods bring new vitality to the development of WFS. Instead of relying on physical models, such as TM, a deep neural network model is used to learn compensating scattering aberrations from a large training data set and can achieve better performance. For example, it can learn how to correct dynamic scattering aberrations102 and the deformation of MMF.114 It can also enlarge the field of view limited by the memory effect, lower the requirement of scattering calibration, and improve the stability of the system.135 The relevant research is in the initial stage, and future engineering efforts are still needed.1 For example, training a neural network requires a large and diverse set of targeted data, resulting in expensive training and insufficient generalization. Learning-based imaging mostly stays in the two-dimensional plane, and how to translate it to depth-resolved volume imaging is still challenging. Meanwhile, since the training process requires direct access to the input and output planes, imaging objects inside the scattering medium presents another difficulty. Nevertheless, learning-based WFS is becoming the focus of research and is promising to bring about a new technological revolution in this field.