Title: Antimicrobial properties of heterojunction BiSnSbO6-ZnO composites in wastewater treatment
Authors: Jing Chen, Shichuan Zhang
Section: 
can be clearly seen that the antibacterial e ciency of the 500 mg/L BiSnSbO6-ZnO composite photocatalytic material against P. aeruginosa reached 100% when the light was irradiated for 4 h. Compared with the antibacterial e ciency of other different concentrations, the antibacterial e ciency of the BiSnSbO6-ZnO composite photocatalytic material at a concentration of 500 mg/L is better, indicating that the optimal antibacterial concentration of the BiSnSbO6-ZnO composite photocatalytic material for bacteria is 500 mg/L. Too much concentration or too little concentration will affect the photocatalytic activity of BiSnSbO6-ZnO composite photocatalytic material. Figure 5(b), (d), (f) are the antibacterial plate images of monomer BiSnSbO6, ZnO and BiSnSbO6-ZnO composite photocatalytic materials with different concentrations against E. coli, S. aureus and P. aeruginosa. In order to explore the antibacterial e ciency of materials with different concentrations, the antibacterial time of light exposure was extended to continue to observe. From Fig. 6, it can be found that at 12 h, the BiSnSbO6-ZnO composite photocatalytic materials with four different antibacterial concentrations of 125 mg/L, 250 mg/L, 500 mg/L and 1000 mg/L had better effects on E. coli, S. aureus and P. aeruginosa three bacteria were 100% antibacterial e ciency. It shows that under the condition of maintaining light conditions, the BiSnSbO6-ZnO composite photocatalytic material with different concentrations can also continue to exert antibacterial effect to kill bacteria. Page 9/31 According to the above research results, it can be found that the optimal antibacterial concentration of BiSnSbO6-ZnO composite photocatalytic material for bacteria is 500 mg/L, but there are species differences in the antibacterial effect on different bacteria. In order to understand the antibacterial properties of BiSnSbO6-ZnO composite photocatalytic materials on fungi, this paper also used Candida albicans as model bacteria to conduct antibacterial experiments on fungi. Figure 7 showed the antibacterial e ciency diagram and antibacterial plate diagram of single BiSnSbO6, ZnO and BiSnSbO6-ZnO composite photocatalytic materials with different concentrations against Candida albicans. The antibacterial e ciency against Candida albicans reached the highest at h, which was 63.80%. The cytotoxicity of antibacterial materials is of great signi cance for further practical applications of the materials. In this study, normal mouse skin broblasts (L929) were selected to detect the cytotoxicity of BiSnSbO6-ZnO composite photocatalytic materials. According to the results of the previous antibacterial experiments, three different concentrations were set, which were 250 mg/L, 500 mg/L, and 1000 mg/L, respectively. Figure 8 showed the results of MTT assay. There was no signi cant difference in the survival rate of L929 cells between the three different concentrations of