Title: MCM6 is a Poor Prognostic Biomarker and Promotes Progression in Breast Cancer
Authors: Zi Lei, Peng Wang, Da-qi Jia, Lei-lei Li, Yi-peng Wu, Yuan Yang, Guo-qing Pan, Taeg Kyu Kwon
Section: 3.6 MCM6 Knockdown Inhibited the Proliferation of Breast Cancer Cells
Tomake a clarification of the biological role ofMCM6 in the progression and prognosis of breast carcinoma, the lentivirus system was used to conduct stable MCM6 (A) TCGA BRCA database was used in correlational analysis of MCM6 and the expression of immune checkpoint-related genes, and the correlation coefficient threshold was set at 0.2. (B) Correlation analysis of MCM6 expression and immune cell infiltration. (C) Correlation analysis of tumor mutation burden (TMB) with MCM6 expression. (D) TCGA Breast Invasive Carcinoma (BRCA) database was used to analyze the promoter methylation level of MCM6 between normal tissues and diseased tissues. knockdown in MDA-MB-231 and MCF-7 cancerous cells (shMCM6), by which the mRNA and protein expression of MCM6 was considerably down-regulated (Fig. 9A,B). MCM6 down-regulation prevents the growth of cancerous cells (Fig. 9C), lead to a higher percentage of apoptotic cells (Fig. 9D). MCM6 silencing caused cancerous cells to reproduce in large numbers in G1 phase and reduced cancerous cells in S phase (Fig. 9E). MCM6 knockdown also reduced the migrating and invasive power of diseased cells (Fig. 9F,G). To test whether MCM6 promoted breast tumor growth in vivo, a subcutaneous transplantation tumor model of BALB/c nude mice was constructed with MDA-MB-231 breast cancer cells (Fig. 10A). The volume andweight of the xenografts of MDA-MB-231 cells with MCM6 knockdown were lighter than those of the control group (Fig. 10B,C). The quantity of ki-67-positive cells in the xenograft tumor withMCM6 knockdownwas decreased compared with that in the control group, consistent with MCM6 expression (Fig. 10D). These results suggested thatMCM6 knockdown can successfully retrain the growth of cancerous cells both in vivo and in vitro. 4. Discussion Breast cancer prevails in the world’s female popula- tion, with increasing incidence and a trend toward younger age year by year [2]. In recent years, targeted therapy, including trastuzumab, pertuzumab, lapatinib and lenatinib for HER2 treatment; bevacizumab, an antiangiogenic drug; PARP inhibitors iniparib, veliparib and olaparib for BRCA1/2 mutation, etc., has significantly prolonged life expectancy and quality of life in patients [26–28]. Although the mentioned drugs have achieved good clinical efficacy, they are only targeted at patients with specific molecular changes. There are still many breast cancer patients with poor efficacy because of drug resistance and other problems. Breast cancer is a very heterogeneous tumor, and its occurrence and development involve many gene changes. Hence, it is imminent to explore new biological markers and potential targets of breast cancer to provide a new basis for prognostic effect management and the development of targeted medication. This research suggested that MCM6 expression