Faculty Name: lei li
Paperid: 75d672cf3e648bdbeb9bbe31e91d8d721b550304
Title: Combining non-negative matrix factorization with graph Laplacian regularization for predicting drug-miRNA associations based on multi-source information fusion
Year: 2023
Abstract: Increasing evidences suggest that miRNAs play a key role in the occurrence and progression of many complex human diseases. Therefore, targeting dysregulated miRNAs with small molecule drugs in the clinical has become a new treatment. Nevertheless, it is high cost and time-consuming for identifying miRNAs-targeted with drugs by biological experiments. Thus, more reliable computational method for identification associations of drugs with miRNAs urgently need to be developed. In this study, we proposed an efficient method, called GNMFDMA, to predict potential associations of drug with miRNA by combining graph Laplacian regularization with non-negative matrix factorization. We first calculated the overall similarity matrices of drugs and miRNAs according to the collected different biological information. Subsequently, the new drug-miRNA association adjacency matrix was reformulated based on the K nearest neighbor profiles so as to put right the false negative associations. Finally, graph Laplacian regularization collaborative non-negative matrix factorization was used to calculate the association scores of drugs with miRNAs. In the cross validation, GNMFDMA obtains AUC of 0.9193, which outperformed the existing methods. In addition, case studies on three common drugs (i.e., 5-Aza-CdR, 5-FU and Gemcitabine), 30, 31 and 34 of the top-50 associations inferred by GNMFDMA were verified. These results reveal that GNMFDMA is a reliable and efficient computational approach for identifying the potential drug-miRNA associations.
Authors: Mei-Neng Wang, Yu Li, Li-lan Lei, D. Ding, Xue-Jun Xie
Venue: Frontiers in Pharmacology
Tldr: {'model': 'tldr@v2.0.0', 'text': 'The proposed GNMFDMA is a reliable and efficient computational approach for identifying the potential drug-miRNA associations and outperformed the existing methods.'}
Url: https://www.frontiersin.org/articles/10.3389/fphar.2023.1132012/pdf
