Title: Polydopamine-functionalized selenium nanoparticles as an efficient photoresponsive antibacterial platform
Authors: Meng Sun, Ping Gao, Bao Wang, Xiangyang Li, Donghan Shao, Yan Xu, Leijiao Li, Yunhui Li, Jianwei Zhu, Wenliang Li, Yingxue Xue
Section: 
of the Se@PDA sample. (H) Corresponding image of rich Se. (I) Corresponding image of rich N. O pe n A cc es s A rt ic le . P ub lis he d on 2 9 M ar ch 2 02 3. D ow nl oa de d on 3 /1 3/ 20 24 4 :1 4: 34 A M . T hi s ar tic le is li ce ns ed u nd er a C re at iv e C om m on s A ttr ib ut io nN on C om m er ci al 3 .0 U np or te d L ic en ce shell layer. The water and PBS solution of Se@PDA can be stable for more than 7 days (Fig. S2†). In addition, the elemental distribution of Se@PDA was characterized by elemental mapping images, which showed that Se was mainly concentrated in the nucleus of the nanoparticles, while N was mainly distributed on the outer edge of the nanoparticles to envelop Se (Fig. 1G and H). The synthesized Se@PDA has good NIR absorption and the photothermal effect was evaluated. Aqueous solutions of Se@PDA with different concentrations of Se@PDA were placed under an NIR light source (808 nm 2 W cm−2) to observe the temperature rise within 10 min. The Se@PDA group showed an excellent warming effect and a strong concentration-dependent photothermal effect compared with water (Fig. 2A). The power density of the irradiating laser had a signicant effect on the photothermal property (Fig. 2B). There was no signicant decrease in the warming effect aer four cycles, indicating the good photothermal stability of Se@PDA (Fig. 2C). The photothermal conversion efficiency (h) of Se@PDA is 81.98% © 2023 The Author(s). Published by the Royal Society of Chemistry (Fig. 2D). Se@PDA has a high h compared with other similar PDA-modied materials, such as PDA/Au colloidal hollow nanoparticles (19.88%),15 a Pt-PDA hybrid nanocomposite (44.5%)16 and PDA-Ce6 (60.4%).17 These results suggested that the synthesized Se@PDA have good photothermal properties. PDA shells can be loaded with the near-infrared photosensitizer ICG through hydrophobic interaction and p–p stacking.18 When the feeding ratio of Se@PDA and ICG was 1 : 0.8, the ICG loading rate was calculated to be 8.11% by UV absorption spectroscopy (Fig. S3 and S4†). The color of the solution changed from black-brown to dark green aer loading ICG, and the average zeta potential decreased from−25mV to−37.6mV, further indicating the successful loading of ICG (Fig. S5†). ICG could be turned on to produce both heat and ROS under