Title: flexspline-flexible bearing contact pair in harmonic drive based on macro-micro scale modeling
Authors: Yihao Zheng, Ziling Zhang, Qiushi Hu, Heng Li, Guang Wang, Lei Li
Section: COPYRIGHT
Liao et al. (2017) put forward a method for identifying the contact stiffness and contact force of shrink-fit tool-holder joint based on Hertz theory and fractal theory, considering the friction factor. They analyzed the effects of radial interference, tool insertion length, and rotation speed on the contact behaviors between the shrink-fit toolholder connection. Li et al. (2020); Li et al. (2021) considered the influence of bulk substrate deformation caused by the interaction between the asperity and the bulk substrate, and established a contact stiffness model of the joint surface with continuous and smooth characteristics by using Hermite polynomial interpolation functions. Previous researchers have made valuable contributions to the modeling and analysis of mechanical part contact, providing deeper insights into the performance of mechanical surfaces. However, there is currently a lack of research on macro-microscale combined modeling of mechanical surfaces. The amalgamation of these techniques holds promise in revealing the underlying characteristics of mechanical surface properties more accurately. This article is centered on the investigation of the torsional stiffness of the FS-FB contact pair in a harmonic drive. The process flowchart is shown in Figure 1. The rest of this article is organized as follows. In Section 2, a torsional stiffness model of the FS-FB contact pair is established based on the combination of fractal theory and FEM. In Section 3, the effectiveness of the proposed model is verified through the torsional stiffness test of the harmonic drive. The effects of torque, installation eccentricity, and deformation coefficient on the torsional stiffness of the FS-FB contact pair are discussed. Finally, the main conclusions are summarized in Section 4. The torsional stiffness modeling and prediction method of the FS-FB contact pair proposed in this article provides an Frontiers in Materials 02 frontiersin.org FIGURE 1 Flowchart of the article. FIGURE 2 Structure diagram of a CD-14–100 model harmonic drive. important reference for optimizing the design of harmonic drives and improving transmission stiffness and accuracy.