Title: Antimicrobial properties of heterojunction BiSnSbO6-ZnO composites in wastewater treatment
Authors: Jing Chen, Shichuan Zhang
Section: 
aureus as model bacteria, so as to determine the optimal composite material ratio for subsequent experiments. Using a control group without catalytic materials in a light environment, the effect of LED light on the inhibition or killing of pathogenic microorganisms was removed. Set up a dark group with catalytic materials in a dark environment, and test whether the materials themselves have the ability to inhibit or kill microorganisms. Provided 35 W LED lighting simultaneously under the same ambient conditions. Using S. aureus as model bacteria, the antibacterial ability of BiSnSbO6-ZnO composite photocatalytic materials at different ratios and concentrations against S. aureus was compared. It can be clearly seen from Fig. 4 that the BiSnSbO6-ZnO composite photocatalytic material with a molar ratio of 1:4 achieved 100% antibacterial e ciency against S. aureus at 4 h. The antibacterial e ciency against S. aureus is higher than that of the BiSnSbO6-ZnO composite photocatalytic material with a molar ratio of 1:5. Page 8/31 Therefore, the BiSnSbO6-ZnO composite photocatalytic material with the best molar ratio of 1:4 was selected for the subsequent experiments. Figure 5(a) shows the photocatalytic antibacterial e ciency of the BiSnSbO6-ZnO composite photocatalytic material with different concentrations of 1:4 molar ratio on E. coli. In the antibacterial process, the best antibacterial e ciencies of single BiSnSbO6 and ZnO against E. coli within 6 h were 67.46% and 28.57%, respectively, indicating that both BiSnSbO6 and ZnO have a certain inactivation effect on E. coli under LED light, but the effect is not ideal, and different concentrations of BiSnSbO6-ZnO composite photocatalytic materials have better antibacterial properties than single BiSnSbO6 and ZnO. After 6 h of light irradiation, 500 mg/L BiSnSbO6-ZnO composite photocatalytic material had the highest antibacterial e ciency against E. coli, reaching 99.63%. Figure 5(c) is a graph showing the antibacterial e ciency of BiSnSbO6-ZnO composite photocatalytic material against S. aureus. It can be seen that the highest antibacterial e ciencies of the monomers BiSnSbO6 and ZnO are 21.60% and 84.79% respectively within 6 h, and the BiSnSbO6-ZnO composite photocatalytic material exhibits better antibacterial properties. The antibacterial e ciency of the catalytic material reached 100% at 4 h. NanoZnO has been shown to be selectively toxic to S. aureus, and the experimental results are consistent with the reported literature (L. R. Zheng et al. 2012). Figure 5(e) is a graph showing the antibacterial e ciency of BiSnSbO6-ZnO composite photocatalytic material against P. aeruginosa. Compared with the monomers BiSnSbO6 and ZnO, the BiSnSbO6-ZnO composite photocatalytic material exhibited stronger antibacterial properties against P. aeruginosa, It