Title: flexspline-flexible bearing contact pair in harmonic drive based on macro-micro scale modeling
Authors: Yihao Zheng, Ziling Zhang, Qiushi Hu, Heng Li, Guang Wang, Lei Li
Section: COPYRIGHT
contact model. However, the GW model only considers the elastic deformation stage of the asperities. Zhao et al. (2000) established an elastic-plastic asperity microcontact model, namely, the Z-MC contact model. The ZMC model incorporates the transitional regime from elastic deformation to fully plastic flow of the asperity into consideration. Kogut and Etsion. (2002); Kogut and Etsion. (2003) solved the elasticplastic contact problem of a rigid flat pressing against a sphere through finite element simulation and constructed the KE elasticplastic model, which extends the classical Hertz solution to a fully plastic contact area. However, contact models based on statistical parameters do not provide unique characterization and analysis results for the given rough surfaces. Based on the fractal theory and the Weierstrass-Mandelbrot function (Majumdar and Tien, 1990) characterizing the two-dimensional profile features of isotropic rough surfaces, Majumdar and Bhushan (1991) developed the MB fractal contact model for rough surfaces. It is noteworthy that the MB model indicates that smaller contact spots tend to undergo plastic deformation, while larger contact spots undergo elastic deformation. This prediction is in stark contrast to the classical theories of contact mechanics, which predicts the opposite. In the MB model, the deformation of a single asperity is a complete deformation that is independent of the applied load, and the asperity peak curvature radius is a parameter related to the contact area rather than a constant value. Later, Morag and Etsion (2006) demonstrated that the deformation process of a single asperity on a fractal surface always starts from an elastic state and eventually undergoes an elastic-plastic transition. Liou and Lin (2010) believed that the behaves of a fractal asperity conforms to classical contact mechanics. By combining the generalized Weierstrass-Mandelbrot function with the radius-vector function method, the formulas for the fractal surface profiles of sphere-based and cylinder-based particles were derived. A microcontact model, considering spherebased and cylinder-based fractal bodies in contact with a smooth rigid flat surface was established, and the real contact area and the contact load were obtained. Research on contact stiffness of joint surfaces has also been developed. Jiang et al. (2010) introduced a contact stiffness model for investigating rough surface contacts in machined plane joints, utilizing fractal geometry and accounting for elastic-plastic deformation and size-dependent contact stiffness.The model was validated through theoretical analysis and experimental testing and found to be accurate on cast iron specimens. Tian et al. (2017) modeled the normal contact stiffness of the slow sliding surface in machine tool ground foot, and discussed the influence of surface parameters on the surface dynamic characteristics.