Title: Establishment of a N1‐methyladenosine‐related risk signature for breast carcinoma by bioinformatics analysis and experimental validation
Authors: Leilei Li, Wenhui Yang, Yuzhe Gao
Section: Discussion
poor prognosis in pancreatic cancer and promoting tumor progression through the NF-κB pathway [80]. Another study demonstrated that elevated FREM1 expression in breast cancer is a marker of favorable prognosis and high levels of immune infiltration [56]. However, this study also has limitations. We only verified the mRNA expression of the genes and RIP-qPCR and western blot experiments of six m1A methylation-related key genes, especially the CD1C gene, should be completed in a follow-up study. In addition, the exploration of the original cohort data was not involved in this study and required further investigation [58]. Clinical experiments and in vivo and in vitro experiments are required to validate the correlation between m1A modification and BRCA, which could make our findings more sound and solid. In conclusion, an m1A RNA methylation regulator-related prognostic model containing six genes (MEOX1, COL17A1, 1 3 FREM1, CD1C, TNN, and SLIT3) was constructed, and the clinical correlation analysis and construction of the nomogram based on the prognostic model were conducted to provide a theoretical reference for individual counseling and clinical preventive intervention in BRCA. In addition, the prognostic gene expression had significant correlations with M0 macrophages and naive B cells. Various immune checkpoint molecules (ICOS, TIGIT, etc.) that were differentially expressed in the two risk groups might be considered potential therapeutic targets in BRCA. Moreover, mutations in FREM1 and TNN as well as the m1A RNA methylation regulator YTHDF1 occurred in the BRCA process. In the future, we will continue to carry out experimental verification. Supplementary Information The online version contains supplementary material available at https:// doi. org/ 10. 1007/ s12282- 023- 01458-1. Acknowledgements We would like to thank the R language, researchers, and study participants for their contributions. Author contributions The research was designed by GW and YG. The information evaluation from the public database was made by way of LL and WY. LL was in charge of writing the draft. DJ: methodology, software, formal analysis, review, and editing. SZ: picture arrangement. All authors reviewed the manuscript. Funding This work was supported by grants from the National Natural Science Foundation of China Youth Project (81802479), Guizhou Provincial Department of Health Project (gzwjkj2019-1-124), and Guizhou Provincial Department of Science and Technology Project (Qianke He Foundation [2020] 1Y343). Data availability The data that support the findings of this study are available on request from the corresponding author.