Title: The effects of pharmaceutical interventions on potentially inappropriate medications in older patients: a systematic review and meta-analysis
Authors: Brijesh Sathian
Section: Discussion
benefits within the context of an individual patient’s care goals, current level of functioning, life expectancy, values, and preferences (39, 40). A growing body of evidence related to the adverse effects of polypharmacy on older patients supported the need for deprescribing (43), and the number of drugs that a patient is taking is the most important predictor of ADEs (44). Therefore, the number of drugs used per person and 30-day readmission rate reflect the efficacy and safety FIGURE 3 Forest plot for outcomes of eligible RCTs comparing pharmaceutical intervention with usual care (A) number of drugs used, (B) 30-days readmission, (C) all-cause mortality, (D) falling. Frontiers in Public Health 08 frontiersin.org of drug therapy, as well as being important indicators for testing the effects of pharmaceutical interventions. Additionally, regarding the economic endpoint, although only one study (25) reported the cost of drugs, pharmaceutical interventions could effectively reduce the cost of drugs in the study group compared with that in the control group. Economic systematic reviews (45) focusing on polypharmacy have expressed the same view, with interventions generally associated with a reduction in medication expenditure. Available evidence suggests that the potential benefits of interventions to optimize medication use outweigh the costs of their implementation, and the results of the included cost–benefit analysis studies (46–48) showed a net benefit that was null or positive. The all-cause mortality and average number of falls were both lower in the study group than those in the control group, however, the differences were not statistically significant. The mortality rates were consistent with those reported previously (15). This can be related to contribution of other factors affecting mortality, of which disease progression is noteworthy. However, there are still some drug-related factors that require clinicians’ attention (49–51). Several studies (52, 53) have shown that targeted pharmacological interventions for fall risk, including withdrawal of potential fall-risk-increasing drugs (FRIDs), pharmacist-conducted clinical medication review, and computerized drug alerts, were effective in reducing fall risk. However, tools for assessing PIM, such as Beers’ and STOPP criteria, do not concentrate on FRIDs. Therefore, in the comprehensive pharmacological intervention, the management of FRIDs still needs to be improved, and it is suggested to reduce the fall risk in older patients with polypharmacy. Because no “gold standard” has been identified, multiple interventions toward PIMs are advised, so the diversity of interventions included and analyzes in our meta-analysis is critical. Compared with the a scoping review of available interventions published in 2012 (41), relevant interventions, including prescription deprescribing, CDSS, medication therapy management (MTM) and so on,