Title: Hence, Socrates is mortal: A Benchmark for Natural Language Syllogistic Reasoning
Authors: Yongkang Wu, Meng Han, Yutao Zhu, Lei Li, Xinyu Zhang, Ruofei Lai, Xiaoguang Li, Yuanhang Ren, Zhicheng Dou, Zhao Cao
Section: I Case Study
carboxylic acid are useful. rewritten sentences: A medication is a type of drug. Hormones are a type of medication. Plant hormones are a subset of hormones. Gibberellins are one type of plant hormone. All drugs have some sort of usefulness. Gibberellins are carboxylic acids. [Therefore], some carboxylic acids can be useful. Table 20: GPT-3 rewriting prompts for complex syllogisms. Rewrite the following sentences to standard English. Keep the meaning of the original sentences, but change the expression of the sentences. original sentences: If you want to eat then you should open the refrigerator and open the chiller. It is eat, and it is open the refrigerator. [Therefore], it is open the chiller. rewritten sentences: If you want to eat something after working out, open the refrigerator and make sure the chiller is in good working order. When you are hungry and want to eat anything, you may open the refrigerator to find some food. [Therefore], you must ensure that the chiller is operational. original sentences: My toes are warmth and affectionateness, or My toes are cold. My toes are not warmth or not affectionateness. [Therefore], my toes are cold. rewritten sentences: The temperature here varies greatly, my toes can be warm and friendly, or they might be freezing. Because of the low temperature, my toes are not warm or loving. [Therefore], my toes are freezing. original sentences: Neon lights are dark, or Neon lights are bright and burnished. Neon lights are not dark, and Neon lights are burnished. [Therefore], Neon lights are bright. rewritten sentences: Neon lights might be dim at times, but most of the time they are dazzling and burnished at night. Neon lights are not dim, and they shine burnished at night. [Therefore], the neon lights are really bright at night. original sentences: Something you might do while not getting exercise is not get tired. Sometimes you don’t getting exercise. [Therefore], You don’t get tired. rewritten sentences: If you do not exercise, you might remain energetic. When you don’t workout occasionally, you will not become exhausted. [Therefore], If you are not exercising you will not get tired. Table 21: Examples of conclusions generated by BART. The good results and bad results are in different colors. Categorical Syllogism Premise 1: Carbon dioxide is a chemical compound. Premise 2: Chemical compounds are considered pure substances. Conclusion: Pure substances include carbon dioxide. Prediction: Some completely natural substances include carbon dioxide. Categorical Syllogism Premise 1: All machines are not human. Premise 2: Every truck crane is a type of apparatus. Conclusion: