Title: Establishment of a N1‐methyladenosine‐related risk signature for breast carcinoma by bioinformatics analysis and experimental validation
Authors: Leilei Li, Wenhui Yang, Yuzhe Gao
Section: Discussion
was a potential tumor suppressor in lung adenocarcinoma. And meanwhile, the results of IHC in a study of BRCA showed that SLIT3 expression was lower than that in normal tissues [58], exhibiting the same expression patterns in this study. Therefore, we believe that these genes may be involved in the prognosis of breast cancer. In this work, the C-index of the m1A-related nomogram was calculated to be 0.7782541, indicating that the prediction of the nomogram model was accurate. We performed a decision curve analysis on the risk model and nomogram, and compared the prediction efficiency of the simple risk model and the model after adding clinical factors (M stage). The results showed that the latter can better predict the survival of patients. It is noteworthy that the DEGs between the high-m1A and low-m1A risk groups and the low-m1A risk groups which may be attributed to the fact that the role of m1A modification in tumors is heterogeneous. The repressive impact of m1A on translation is probably due to its scarcity in cytosolic mRNAs [17, 59]. For the m1A eraser genes ALKBH1 and ALKBH3, it was suggested that the mRNA 1 3 expression of MFAP2 and the methylation modification of m1A were increased in colorectal cancer when ALKBH1 was silenced [60]. The depletion of ALKBH3 enhances the decay of Aurora A mRNA and inhibits its translation [61]. Similarly, the expression of key genes relevant to the ErbB and mTOR pathways could also be inhibited by ALKBH3 1 3 in gastrointestinal cancer [62]. On the other hand, overexpression of TRM6/TRM61 mRNA as m1A writer genes was detected in highly invasive glioblastoma multiforme, which reduced PKCα [59]. Moreover, it was found that the expression of DEGs in hepatocellular carcinoma patients with different m1A methylation modification modes was mostly regulated, which was similar to our results. It was indicated that the inhibition of m1A methylation on gene expression may play an important role in BRCA. A large number of studies have also shown that immune infiltration is associated with tumor prognosis. Tumors with a large amount of CD8+ T-cell infiltration, M1 macrophages, and plasma cells in the tumor microenvironment seem to have a better prognosis [63–67]. Higher levels of M0 and M2 macrophages and lower levels of CD8+ T cells in the tumor Fig. 8 Impact of risk models on immune heterogeneity. a Violin plots of differences in the immune microenvironment between the highand low-risk groups. b Boxplot of immune cell infiltration in the two risk groups (*represents p < 0.05, **represents p <