Title: Establishment of a N1‐methyladenosine‐related risk signature for breast carcinoma by bioinformatics analysis and experimental validation
Authors: Leilei Li, Wenhui Yang, Yuzhe Gao
Section: Discussion
prognostic model was constructed by 6 m1A-related genes (MEOX1, COL17A1, FREM1, CD1C, TNN, and SLIT3) screened by univariate Cox analysis and LASSO regression analysis. Considering that breast cancer is intrinsically heterogeneous and different intrinsic subtypes are associated with distinct biological features and clinical outcomes. By comparing the risk scores for different intrinsic subtypes of breast cancer, it was found that the risk scores were well differentiated among different subtypes. Some studies have found that Luminal A and Luminal B may have differences in clinical diagnosis [50], and the risk scores of the two also had significant differences, which preliminarily proves the effectiveness of the study. Moreover, risk stratification survival analysis for each subtype was carried out as well. The results showed that the prognostic model had good predictive ability in the prognosis of Luminal A and Luminal B patients with BRCA. Meanwhile, correlation analysis between risk models and clinical factors was conducted. Except for the N-stage, other clinicopathological features had a significant correlation with risk scores. Although, the significant correlation between risk genes MEOX1, COL17A1, and lymph-node metastasis in triplenegative breast cancer patients has been reported [51, 52]. However, these studies did not involve the specific mechanism of m1A regulation, which is not inconsistent with our conclusions. Although univariate analysis has shown that lymph-node (N) status was associated with OS, further multivariate analysis has shown that it was not sufficient to participate as an independent prognostic factor in the construction of m6A-related nomograms, which was also similar to our findings [53]. We speculated that the relevant mechanism of m1A had less influence on the lymphnode metastasis process of breast cancer patients. Studies have shown that high levels of MEOX1 were an independent prognostic factor for non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), and it could regulate cell proliferation and colony formation in vitro, making it a potential therapeutic target for NSCLC [54]. Yodsurang V mentioned that COL17A1 was a novel p53 transcriptional target in BRCA that inhibited cell migration and invasion and was positively associated with prognosis, and the expression level of COL17A1 mRNA in both primary and metastatic BRCA tissues was significantly reduced, which was consistent with our findings [55]. FREM1 was mainly involved in cellular metabolism and immune cell infiltration. The results of immunohistochemical (IHC) and immunofluorescence (IF) showed that the expression of FREM1 in BRCA tissue was significantly reduced as shown in the current study, and low 1 3 FREM1 expression was an independent prognostic factor for BRCA [56]. The study by Zhang et al. [57] demonstrated that SLIT3