Title: MCM6 is a Poor Prognostic Biomarker and Promotes Progression in Breast Cancer
Authors: Zi Lei, Peng Wang, Da-qi Jia, Lei-lei Li, Yi-peng Wu, Yuan Yang, Guo-qing Pan, Taeg Kyu Kwon
Section: 3.6 MCM6 Knockdown Inhibited the Proliferation of Breast Cancer Cells
was increased in a variety of tumors, including breast cancer, combined with TCGA database, clinical samples and breast cancer cells. Our conclusions are supported by Issac et al. [16]. Furthermore, MCM6 expression in luminal B, basal and HER2 breast cancer was significantly increased, and that in invasive lobular carcinoma was higher than that in invasive ductal carcinoma, which indicated that the role and prognostic value of MCM6 in different types of breast cancer may be different and that the mechanism needs to be further investigated. In recent years, studies on biomarkers, prognostic markers and prognostic models of breast cancer have attracted increasing attention and can provide a good basis for the prognosis of breast cancer. We constructed a nomogram prediction model that included five factors (age, expression of ER, M stage, N stage and expression of MCM6) by multivariate Cox regression analysis, and the research results showed that low expression of MCM6 may indicate longer survival time for patients with breast cancer in our prognostic model. Relevant studies reported that excessive expression of MCM6 was related to poor prognostic effect. High expression ofMCM6mRNAwas significantly associated with shorter survival time of patients with breast cancer [29]. Low expression of MCM6 mRNA is associated with increased recurrence-free survival in breast cancer patients [16]. The expression level of MCM6 in high-grade tumors is significantly increased and correlated withmitotic count, which is an effective reference index for tumor grading [30]. These results agreed closely with the outcomes in the model we constructed and suggested that overexpression was independent as a prognostic factor for breast carcinoma. An increasing number of studies have shown that the role of MCM6 in tumor progression is extensive [14]. MCM6 silencing leads to arrest of S to G1 phase progression by reducing CDK2, CDK2, cyclin A, cyclin B4, cyclin D1 and cyclin E in hepatocellular carcinoma [31]. MCM6 promotes the metastasis of hepatocellular carcinoma through the MEK/ERK pathway [21]. CDK5RAP3 reduces MCM6 nuclear translocation, thereby reducing gastric cancer proliferation [32]. Liu et al. [33] found that SIX1 is an oncoprotein in cervical cancer that promotes proliferation by promoting the expression of MCM6. Boulay et al. [34] found that ARF1 promotes breast cancer proliferation by enhancing the expression ofMCM6 and up-regulating the activity of pRB/E2F1. Nevertheless, the function of MCM6 in breast carcinoma remains unclear. The results of this study showed that MCM6 promoted breast cancer cell proliferation in vitro and in vivo, and promoted breast cancer migration and invasion in vitro. However, the biological pathway by which MCM6 plays a