Title: Antimicrobial properties of heterojunction BiSnSbO6-ZnO composites in wastewater treatment
Authors: Jing Chen, Shichuan Zhang
Section: 
Page 2/31 1. Introduction With the enhancement of people's health awareness, the requirements for the living environment are also continuously improved, and we gradually realize that bacteria exist in all aspects of our daily life and are one of the microorganisms that humans are in close contact with. Bacteria are not only the main participants in the material cycle of nature, but also play an important role in human body functions. However, the problem of microbial contamination caused by bacteria and fungi in global environmental pollution cannot be ignored. Due to the high adaptability of microorganisms, it has always been challenging problem to e ciently remove harmful microorganisms in environments such as drinking water treatment, food processing, medical device manufacturing or textile industry (X. Qu et al. 2013; P. J. Vikesland et al. 2010; P. Hajipour et al. 2021). Even with the rapid development of science and technology, research on antibacterial agents that inhibit the growth and reproduction of pathogenic microorganisms is still a crucial task, so photocatalytic antibacterial materials have emerged as the times require. Photocatalytic antibacterial materials are a kind of antibacterial materials (M. Surapaneni et al. 2015). Inorganic antibacterial materials have many advantages such as long-lasting antibacterial and environmental protection (J. Z. Sun et al. 2013). The composite antibacterial material refers to the composite material of two or more kinds of antibacterial materials combined together to form a composite material with more excellent antibacterial effect. At present, the eld of composite photocatalytic materials has been well developed because of their better photocatalytic performance, Page 3/31 higher light utilization, and better chemical stability compared with single catalytic materials (S. Liang et al. 2019; J. W. Xu et al. 2014; S. Ghafoor et al. 2018; H. Yang et al. 2018; P. Huang et al. 2019; M. Gratzel. 2018). Among all photocatalytic antibacterial materials, n-type ZnO has been widely studied in photocatalytic applications due to its unique electronic structure and suitable properties, and is a new type of antibacterial material (C. S. Cunha et al. 2020; L. Hu et al. 2019; R. Singh et al. 2019; O. O. Ozdemir et al. 2020). However, ZnO has certain defects, such as a wide bandgap around 3.2 eV, which makes the activity of ZnO limited to the ultraviolet region and not active in the visible region (V. Kumar et al. 2017; A. Aditya et al. 2018; K. Qi et al. 2019; A. Rahman et al. 2021). But this defect can be ameliorated by doping or forming composites with narrow bandgap materials (M. Yan