Title: Polydopamine-functionalized selenium nanoparticles as an efficient photoresponsive antibacterial platform
Authors: Meng Sun, Ping Gao, Bao Wang, Xiangyang Li, Donghan Shao, Yan Xu, Leijiao Li, Yunhui Li, Jianwei Zhu, Wenliang Li, Yingxue Xue
Section: 
Published by the Royal Society of Chemistry O pe n A cc es s A rt ic le . P ub lis he d on 2 9 M ar ch 2 02 3. D ow nl oa de d on 3 /1 3/ 20 24 4 :1 4: 34 A M . T hi s ar tic le is li ce ns ed u nd er a C re at iv e C om m on s A ttr ib ut io nN on C om m er ci al 3 .0 U np or te d L ic en ce varying degrees of reduction in trabecular area from day 0 to day 8 in all groups. 2 days aer treatment, there was some yellow pus on the trabecular surface, indicating that the S. aureus infection model was successfully established. 8 days aer treatment, the wound closure rates in the PBS, PBS + NIR, Se@PDA-ICG and Se@PDA-ICG + NIR groups were 45.8%, 55.52%, 70.36% and 88.74%, and the wound healing effect in the Se@PDA-ICG + NIR treatment group was signicantly better than in the other control groups. More importantly, the Se@PDA-ICG group showed better wound closure rates than other similar light-responsive antimicrobial therapeutics on the 8th day aer treatment.23,24 Furthermore, the bactericidal effect of the different groups of wounds was assessed by plate counting on the 8th day aer treatment, and the Se@PDA-ICG + NIR group had the best bactericidal effect with almost no bacteria surviving in the tissue uid (Fig. 5C). During the treatment, the body weight of the mice remained normal with almost no signicant difference between different groups (Fig. S11†), suggesting no damage to the health status of themice. On day 8 of wound healing, skin tissue from the trauma site was removed for pathological analysis, and the wound healing effect on each group was evaluated. Fig. S12A† shows hematoxylin and eosin (H & E) and Masson staining in each group. It can be seen from the photographs that there is still obvious inammatory inltration and fewer collagen bres in the PBS group. The Se@PDA-ICG + NIR group showed intact capillaries and the greatest collagen deposition, most similar to the state of healthy tissue. In addition, the changes in cytokines during wound healing are closely related to cell metabolism and proliferation.25 The changes in angiogenesis and inammation in the stage of wound healing can be evaluated by double staining with VEGF and CD45. As shown in Fig. S12B,† the expression level of the VEGF factor in the