Title: MCM6 is a Poor Prognostic Biomarker and Promotes Progression in Breast Cancer
Authors: Zi Lei, Peng Wang, Da-qi Jia, Lei-lei Li, Yi-peng Wu, Yuan Yang, Guo-qing Pan, Taeg Kyu Kwon
Section: 3.6 MCM6 Knockdown Inhibited the Proliferation of Breast Cancer Cells
be used as a monitoring indicator of drug sensitivity in breast cancer. However, our screening results still need to be verified by a large number of clinical cases and related experiments. 5. Conclusions In conclusion, our research shows that overexpression of MCM6 can be found in patients with breast carcinoma and used as a poor prognostic factor for the disease. MCM6 can promote the proliferation of cancerous cells in vitro and in vivo. Based on database and bioinformatics analyses, MCM6 plays a crucial role in tumor immunity, tumor mu- tation burden and methylation through a variety of biological pathways and is related to drug sensitivity (Fig. 11). MCM6 can be used as a poor prognostic marker of breast cancer and a potential target for immunotherapy and targeted therapy. However, in our experiments, we have not further verified the biological pathways of MCM6 in breast cancer and the role and mechanism of MCM6 in tumor mutation burden and tumor immunity, and further studies are needed. In the future, comprehensive individualized treatment with chemotherapy combined with targeted therapy and immunotherapy will become the main treatment option for breast cancer patients. Our preliminary study showed that the high expression ofMCM6 in breast cancer increases the sensitivity of related drugs. Targeting MCM6 and combining with related sensitive drugs is a promising research direction. Therefore, our study demonstrates that MCM6 has a potential oncogenic role in breast cancer and provides a new direction for targeted therapy and immunotherapy in breast cancer patients. Availability of Data and Materials The datasets used and/or analyzed during the current study are available from the corresponding author on reasonable request. Author Contributions ZL and GP designed the study. PW, DJ, and LL an- alyzed the data. ZL, YW, and YY performed the experiments. ZL, PW, and GP contributed to the writing of the manuscript. All authors contributed to editorial changes in the manuscript. All authors read and approved the final manuscript. All authors have participated sufficiently in the work and agreed to be accountable for all aspects of the work Ethics Approval and Consent to Participate This study was supported by the Ethics Committee of the First Affiliated Hospital of Kunming Medical University (kmmu20220767). Specimens were handled in accordance with legal and ethical regulations. Acknowledgment Not applicable. Funding This study was supported by National Natural Science Foundation of China (82260512), Basic Research Program of Yunnan Province (202201AS070076, 202201AT070280), Joint Projects of Applied Basic Research of Kunming Medical University and Yunnan Province Department of science and Technology (202101AY070001-016), Science and Technology