Title: Antimicrobial properties of heterojunction BiSnSbO6-ZnO composites in wastewater treatment
Authors: Jing Chen, Shichuan Zhang
Section: 
weak in the photocatalytic antibacterial process. After adding K2Cr2O7 solution, the antibacterial e ciency decreased to a large extent, which indicated that the active substance e− played a major role. The free radical clearing experiment shows that the BiSnSbO6-ZnO composite photocatalytic material can generate ROS under light conditions, and ·OH, h+ and e− all have certain antibacterial effects, of which e− plays the main antibacterial effect. In order to more clearly understand the effect of BiSnSbO6-ZnO composite photocatalytic material on the morphological changes of bacteria and fungi. SEM was used to observe the morphology of experimental bacteria treated with added material light and the control bacteria only treated with light. From Fig. 14, it can be found that compared with the control group, the structures and shapes of bacteria and fungi treated with BiSnSbO6-ZnO composite photocatalytic materials are signi cantly different. E. coli, S. aureus, P. aeruginosa and Candida albicans all exhibited wrinkled atrophy, rupture and irregular morphology to a certain extent, unlike bacteria that had not been treated with the material whose surface was intact. The results showed that the BiSnSbO6-ZnO composite photocatalytic material contacted the surface of bacteria and fungi, causing the surface of bacteria and fungi to atrophy or even rupture, preventing bacteria and fungi from maintaining normal physiological activities until death. In summary, it is found that the BiSnSbO6-ZnO composite photocatalytic material produces active substances ·OH, h+ and e− in the photocatalytic antibacterial process, ·OH, h+ and e− all have a certain antibacterial effect, and the role of e− occupies the leading position. After the active substance is in contact with the bacteria, the structural integrity of the bacteria is destroyed, and the internal substances of the bacteria leak, thereby achieving an antibacterial effect. According to published studies, BiSnSbO6 and ZnO are p-type and n-type semiconductors, respectively (P. Huang et al. 2019; Z. H. Jaffari et al. 2019). At the same time, combining the UV-vis valence and conduction band positions of the two, it is concluded that the BiSnSbO6-ZnO composite photocatalytic material is a type II heterojunction structure, as shown in Fig. 15. 3.5. Application of composite photocatalytic materials in livestock and poultry wastewater Page 12/31 A variety of bacteria have been found in the collected livestock and poultry wastewater, and these bacteria are extremely harmful to humans and the environment. This serious problem needs to be solved urgently to protect the environment. The practical application of antibacterial properties of BiSnSbO6-ZnO composite photocatalytic materials was tested with livestock and poultry wastewater. As shown in Fig. 16,