Title: Antimicrobial properties of heterojunction BiSnSbO6-ZnO composites in wastewater treatment
Authors: Jing Chen, Shichuan Zhang
Section: 
photocatalytic material was successfully synthesized. The morphology, structure and elemental composition of BiSnSbO6-ZnO composite photocatalytic materials were analyzed by SEM, TEM and EDS. Figure 2(a) is an SEM image of BiSnSbO6, showing particles with random three-dimensional shapes. Figures 2(b) and (c) are the SEM and TEM images of the composite with a molar ratio of 1:4, respectively, while Figs. 2(d) and (e) are the SEM and TEM images of the composite with a molar ratio of 1:5. Figure 2(b) and (d) are the SEM pictures of BiSnSbO6- Page 7/31 ZnO composite photocatalytic material. It can be seen from the gure that the irregularly shaped BiSnSbO6 particles are attached to ZnO nanoparticles with smaller particle size, indicating that BiSnSbO6 and ZnO are successfully compounded together to form a BiSnSbO6-ZnO composite photocatalytic material. From Fig. 2 (c), (e) BiSnSbO6-ZnO composite photocatalytic material TEM pictures can be seen from the larger BiSnSbO6 particles and smaller diameter of ZnO. The results further proved that the BiSnSbO6-ZnO composite photocatalytic materials in 1:4 and 1:5 molar ratios were successfully composited. Among them, when scanning and observing the BiSnSbO6-ZnO composite photocatalytic materials with a molar ratio of 1:2 and 1:3, it was found that the composite photocatalytic materials of these two ratios appeared material agglomeration. This phenomenon may be because BiSnSbO6 accounts for more. According to the literature, it can be known that BiSnSbO6 is prone to agglomeration when sintered at high temperature for a long time [30], so the 1:2 and 1:3 molar ratio composite materials were not used in the subsequent antibacterial experiments. The BiSnSbO6-ZnO composite photocatalytic material was scanned by EDS to further verify whether the effective components in the composite material were evenly distributed during the material composite process. Scanning the marked area of the SEM image, all elements (Bi, Sn, Sb, Zn and O) are uniformly distributed in the BiSnSbO6-ZnO composite photocatalytic material as shown in Fig. 3. It shows that BiSnSbO6 and ZnO are successfully coupled to form BiSnSbO6-ZnO composites. 3.2. Antibacterial activity and in vitro cytotoxicity evaluation Using 35 W LED lamp as excitation light source, the photocatalytic antibacterial properties of pure BiSnSbO6 material, pure ZnO material and BiSnSbO6-ZnO composite photocatalytic material were determined by colony counting method. Compared with pure BiSnSbO6 and ZnO materials, the antibacterial properties of BiSnSbO6, ZnO and BiSnSbO6-ZnO composite photocatalytic materials against E. coli, S. aureus, P. aeruginosa and Candida albicans were compared. Firstly, the photocatalytic e ciency of BiSnSbO6-ZnO composite photocatalytic materials with different molar ratios of 1:4 and 1:5 was compared with S.