Title: Combining non-negative matrix factorization with graph Laplacian regularization for predicting drug-miRNA associations based on multi-source information fusion
Authors: Mei-Neng Wang, Yu Li, Li-Lan Lei, De-Wu Ding, Xue-Jun Xie, Shulin Wang
Section: COPYRIGHT
drug similarity network. Li et al. developed a new computational model based on network framework to infer miRNAs as potential biomarkers of anticancer drugs (SMiR-NBI) (Li et al., 2016a). This method implemented a network-based algorithm by constructing a heterogeneous network that connected genes, miRNAs and drugs. Yin et al. developed a computational approach using heterogeneous graph inference and sparse learning to discover associations of drug with miRNA (SLHGISMMA) (Yin et al., 2019). SLHGISMMA decomposes the adjacency matrix of drug-miRNA using sparse learning, and reconstructs heterogeneous graph for predicting. Qu et al. developed a triple layer heterogeneous graph method to discover drug-miRNA potential relationships (TLHNSMMA) (Qu et al., 2018). This method used an iterative update algorithm to transmit information through the constructed heterogeneous network. Wang et al. proposed a new computational model based on random forest (RFSMMA) (Wang et al., 2019b). The model of RFSMMA uses machine learning algorithms to infer drug-miRNA associations by integrating multiple similarities between drugs and miRNAs. Although many calculation methods have been proposed, as of now, these existing methods are still unsatisfactory for predicting drug-miRNA associations. In fact, drug-miRNA associations inference can be regarded as a recommender task (Huang et al., 2017; Wang et al., 2022a). Recent studies suggest that non-negative matrix factorization (NMF) has been effectively used for data representation in recommendation systems (Lee and Seung, 1999; Jiang et al., 2015), especially in the field of bioinformatics (Wang et al., 2021a; Wang et al., 2021b). Therefore, we turn the drug-miRNA association prediction into recommender system task and utilize NMF to discover potential associations between them. In this work, we propose a new approach, GNMFDMA, to infer drug-miRNA potential associations by combining graph Laplacian regularization with non-negative matrix factorization. In our method, the similarity of drug needs to be measured by combining drug chemical structure similarity, drug side effect similarity, diseasephenotype similarity and gene-functional consistency similarity. The similarity of miRNA was measured by merging diseasephenotype and gene-functional consistency. In addition, we constructed the graph space of drug and miRNA using K-nearest neighbors, which guides the matrix factorization process so that similar drugs (miRNAs) are sufficiently close in the graph space (Cai et al., 2010; Huang et al., 2016). We performed five-fold Frontiers in Pharmacology frontiersin.org02 cross-validation to assess the performance of GNMFDMA, and compared it with SMiR-NBI (Li et al., 2016a), SLHGISMMA (Yin et al., 2019), TLHNSMMA (Qu et al., 2018) and RFSMMA (Wang et al., 2019b). The experiment results demonstrated that the proposed method of GNMFDMA outperformed other methods of comparison. In the case studies