Title: Antimicrobial properties of heterojunction BiSnSbO6-ZnO composites in wastewater treatment
Authors: Jing Chen, Shichuan Zhang
Section: 
that the BiSnSbO6-ZnO composite photocatalytic material has better photocatalytic antibacterial e ciency than the single BiSnSbO6 and ZnO materials. PL analysis can study the process of photoinduced electron-hole pair migration, transfer and recombination in semiconductor photocatalytic materials. The PL spectra of BiSnSbO6-ZnO composite photocatalytic material and ZnO are shown in Fig. 12. After exciting the material with 469 nm light, it can be found that the material shows a strong emission peak in the range of 800–900 nm, and the emission peak intensity of the BiSnSbO6-ZnO composite photocatalytic material is lower than that of the pure ZnO material, indicating that the recombination rate of BiSnSbO6 and ZnO inhibited the charge recombination rate. It is further demonstrated that the BiSnSbO6-ZnO composite photocatalytic material can reduce the charge recombination rate, thereby improving the photocatalytic antibacterial activity. 3.4. Understanding of the mechanism for antimicrobial activity In order to understand the role of different active substances in the antibacterial process of BiSnSbO6ZnO composite photocatalytic materials, the photocatalytic antibacterial mechanism of BiSnSbO6-ZnO composite photocatalytic materials was explored through radical scavenging experiments. BQ, IPA, Na2C2O4 and K2Cr2O7 were used as scavengers of ·O2−, ·OH, h+ and e−, respectively. It can be seen from Fig. 13 that after adding BQ, the antibacterial e ciency against the model bacteria S. aureus was enhanced, reaching 100% in 1 h. This should be because the conduction band position of ZnO is -0.31 eV, which is more correct than EθO2/·O2− (-0.33 eV), so the e- on the conduction band of ZnO cannot combine with O2 to form ·O2− (K. N. Abbas et al. 2017). After adding BQ, BQ cannot combine with ·O2−, and Page 11/31 because BQ is a broad-spectrum antibacterial agent, it can interact with DNA, protein, mitochondria, etc. in cells, resulting in bacterial death (Y. Liu et al. 2009; H. L. Wong et al. 2017). This may be the reason why the antibacterial e ciency against Staphylococcus aureus was improved after adding BQ, indicating that ·O2− was not generated during the photocatalytic antibacterial process. The valence band position of BiSnSbO6 is 2.81 eV, which is more correct than Eθ·OH/H2O (2.38 eV) (D. L. Jiang et al. 2017), so the h+ at the valence band of BiSnSbO6 can react with H2O to generate OH, and then react with bacteria. After adding IPA, the antibacterial e ciency decreased slightly, indicating that the role of ·OH in the photocatalytic antibacterial process was almost negligible. When the Na2C2O4 solution was added, the antibacterial e ciency decreased, indicating that the effect of h+ was