Title: Assessment of quality of life after upper extremity transplantation: Framework for patient-reported outcome scale domains
Authors: Paul D. Marasco, Callie E. Tyner
Section: Discussion
implies that if the loss of a limb results in feeling like “something is missing,” a transplanted limb is indeed an opportunity to both figuratively and literally feel restored or “whole.” These sensitive topics are critical, therefore, for inclusion in assessment of HRQOL outcomes following UE transplant. To respond to this need, we have chosen to develop outcomes domains in the psychosocial HRQOL area of Integration and Assimilation of the Transplant and Fitting In. From a medical/surgical perspective, satisfaction with the transplant is a broad and vital area for assessment. Based on our stakeholder input and experience with PRO development, we chose to divide the topic of physical HRQOL after UE transplant into three areas: Function, Sensation, and Aesthetics. Functional abilities of the transplanted limb can be evaluated similarly to any surgical population, considering, for example, range of motion, grip strength, pain, and the various activities of daily living that require manual motor function and dexterity to complete. Thus, we believe that assessment of functional ability is best left to existing measures, such as SCI-FI Fine Motor, SCI-FI Self-Care, PROMIS Upper Extremity (Jette et al., 2012; Tulsky et al., 2012; Kaat et al., 2019), or Neuro-QoL Upper ExtremityFine Motor (Cella et al., 2012; Gershon et al., 2012). In contrast, satisfaction with hand functioning as experienced by UE transplant recipients appears to merit a new HRQOL content domain, as difficulties and frustrations with the responsivity and ease of movement of the transplanted limbs/hands are distinct for this population, where capabilities improve gradually with treatment and nerve regrowth—or sometimes not at all. Likewise, the challenges with sensation and aesthetic satisfaction are also unique to UE transplant. Although there are other clinical groups (e.g., spinal cord injury) where UE sensation can be impacted by injury, and the process of developing sensory-motor control for advanced prosthetic limb users has some similarities (Graczyk et al., 2019; Sensinger and Dosen, 2020), the experience of regaining sensory capabilities as donor nerves become reinnervated is distinct in limb transplant. There are similarities for UE transplant recipients to the benefits experienced from targeted muscle reinnervation (TMR) in terms of reduced phantom limb pain and neuromarelated pain (Morgan et al., 2016; Tintle et al., 2016; Dumanian et al., 2019), and similarities with both invasive (e.g., targeted sensory reinnervation) and non-invasive (e.g., armband-based stimulators) technologies for restoring sensory input with prosthetic or bionic devices (Bensmaia et al., 2020), although ideally the outcome of the VCA transplant will go further than any one of these approaches and restore more natural motor control