Title: SHAP-based Prediction of Mother’s History of Depression to Understand the Influence on Child Behavior
Authors: Maneesh Bilalpur, Laura Cariola, Lisa Sheeber, Saurabh Hinduja, Nicholas Allen, Louis-Philippe Morency, Jefrey F. Cohn
Section: 5 DISCUSSION
these include: brushing hair, choice of dreads, taking shower and ear piercings. Interestingly such references were lower in the children of depressed mothers when compared to the children of non-depressed mothers. Diferentiation words such as but, except and versus were seldom used by children of depressed mothers. Words related to the home environment through references to room, shower, bed, chores, neighbors, landlord, rent, staying home alone, using the bathroom all the time, issues with commute such as driving home and back to school, organising stuf around the house (ex. don’t put that in the hall closet) were found to be higher in the depressed group. Lower references to personal hygiene but increased references to home environment suggest that children of mothers with history of depression were invested in discussing issues related to life at home and/or school over concerns about personal hygiene that are commonly observed among children. Similarly focus on present and usage of words of insight such as think, know and consider that capture thinking styles through cognitive mechanisms, and complex language was found to be higher among children of depressed mothers. Efectiveness of prosody dynamics: We found that the dynamics of prosody through their frst and second-order diferences were highly infuential in detecting the children of depressed mothers over the original eGeMAPS prosody features. For example, the rate of change of MFCC4 component was lower in children with a depressed mother. Similar trend was observed with change in spectral slope at 0-500Hz. The MFCC and spectral slope features capture energy in diferent frequency bands during speech production [8]. Ozdas et al.’s work [26] on jitter and spectral slope for predicting suicide and depression suggests that speech in near-term suicidal and depressed individuals has increased energy in the high frequency (300–3000 Hz) bands. As symptoms subside, the energy activity returns to the lower band [29]. While our fndings on spectral slope do not directly compare the low vs. high-frequency bands, they suggest that changes in lower band are limited among the children of depressed mothers. Alpha ratio, the ratio of energy between 50Hz to 1kHz and 1kHz to 5kHz suggests an increased activity in lower frequency bands among children of depressed mothers. This is contrary to our earlier [26, 29] understanding of spectral features where high-frequency activity was observed with depression and suicidal ideation. Spectral fux captures the diferences in energy between successive speech frames. This is also closely related to the perceived vocal loudness. Both features capture vocal arousal [12]. On these lines, we found that both