Title: SHAP-based Prediction of Mother’s History of Depression to Understand the Influence on Child Behavior
Authors: Maneesh Bilalpur, Laura Cariola, Lisa Sheeber, Saurabh Hinduja, Nicholas Allen, Louis-Philippe Morency, Jefrey F. Cohn
Section: 5 DISCUSSION
spectral fux and loudness exhibit similar behavior that show that changes in arousal (due to change in loudness) and its rate of change (change in spectral fux) are higher among children of depressed mothers. This suggests that confict resolution involving mother with a history of depression leads to more dynamic conversations than their non-depressed counterparts. Formant frequencies are associated with changes in the vocaltract resonance cavity and represent the articulatory efort in speech production. We notice that both the changes in the frst formant frequency (F1) bandwidth and the rate of change of its (F1) frequency is higher in children of depressed mothers over children of non-depressed mothers. Though literature [8] shows some evidence of the role of formant frequencies in depression, limitations in accurately capturing the relationship between articulatory behavior and formants, and improper glottal closure resulted in lack of replicable results. These factors make it hard to make conclusive inferences. Relative energy in frst (F1) and second formants (F2) with respect to the fundamental frequency (F0) correspond to the perceived voice quality [22]. They capture excessive nasal and clicky sounds. We found that the rate of change of voice quality in the frst (shown as F1AmplogRelF0 in Table 2) and second formants (shown as F2AmplogRelF0) also difer among children based on their mother’s history of depression. Negative afect and arousal: Both AU 4 (lowering eyebrows) and AU 15 (lip corner depressor) associated with negative emotions [4] appear in the top contributing features. AU 4 is found in expressions of anger and fear while both AUs 4 and 15 are observed in sadness. AU 4 occurrence appears in top features as various summary statistics. It suggests increased expressions of negative emotion occurrences along with high variance and inter-quartile range i.e. more dynamic expressions were observed in children whose mother has a history of depression. AU 15 occurrence, particularly sadness was also highly likely among children of depressed mothers. Face dynamics had only one top feature–arousal measured through landmark velocity was found to be fat (or less dynamic) in the children with depressed mothers. Limitations: Four limitations may be noted. One, the context of mother-child interaction raises the question whether the behavioral diferences among children we found would generalize to their interactions with other family members, peers, or other persons. Two, participants were low-income, predominantly white, and from a single city in the US. Whether the fndings would apply to families in other parts of the US or other countries or cultures remains to be found. Three, the choice of