Title: VALUE KALEIDOSCOPE : Engaging AI with Pluralistic Human Values, Rights, and Duties
Authors: Taylor Sorensen, Liwei Jiang, Jena D. Hwang, Valentina Pyatkin, Peter West, Nouha Dziri, Ximing Lu, Kavel Rao, Chandra Bhagavatula, Maarten Sap, John Tasioulas, Yejin Choi
Section: K Universal Declaration of Human Rights
arbitrarily deprived of his nationality nor denied the right to change his nationality. -> Right to nationality 29 Marriage shall be entered into only with the free and full consent of the intending spouses. -> Right to free choice of partner, Right to marry 30 Everyone has the right to own property alone as well as in association with others. -> The right to property 31 Everyone has the right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion ; this right includes freedom to change his religion or belief, and freedom, either alone or in community with others and in public or private, to manifest his religion or belief in teaching, practice, worship and observance. -> Right to form one’ s own beliefs 32 Everyone has the right of equal access to public service in his country. -> Right to access services 33 Everyone, as a member of society, has the right to social security and is entitled to realization, through national effort and international co-operation and in accordance with the organization and resources of each State, of the economic, social and cultural rights indispensable for his dignity and the free development of his personality. -> Right to social and economic welfare 34 Everyone who works has the right to just and favourable remuneration ensuring for himself and his family an existence worthy of human dignity, and supplemented, if necessary, by other means of social protection. -> Right to just and favorable working conditions 35 Everyone has the right to rest and leisure, including reasonable limitation of working hours and periodic holidays with pay. -> Right to engage in leisure activities 36 Education shall be directed to the full development of the human personality and to the strengthening of respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. It shall promote understanding, tolerance and friendship among all nations, racial or religious groups, and shall further the activities of the United Nations for the maintenance of peace. -> Educational opportunities 37 Parents have a prior right to choose the kind of education that shall be given to their children. -> Right of parents to make decisions for their children 38 Everyone has the right freely to participate in the cultural life of the community, to enjoy the arts and to share in scientific advancement and its benefits. -> Access to cultural experiences 39 Everyone has the right to the protection of the moral and material interests resulting from any scientific, literary or artistic production of which he is the author. -> Right to protect