Title: From Dogwhistles to Bullhorns: Unveiling Coded Rhetoric with Language Models
Authors: Julia Mendelsohn, Ronan Le Bras, Yejin Choi, Maarten Sap
Section: A Appendix
taxonomy (§2.1; Fig. 2). GPT-3 has the lowest performance for humor-based and arbitrary target group label dogwhistles, and the highest performance for representatives (Bogeymen), phoneticbased target group labels, and policies (Table A.4). anti-liberal 0.292 0.106 transphobic 0.229 0.024 Variation across dogwhistle definitions Only 19.1% of GPT-3 generations include the correct covert meaning when prompted with no dogwhistle definition. Prompting GPT-3 with any of the five dogwhistle definitions greatly improved performance over no definition provided, but the extent varied, with the Merriam-Webster definition yielding the lowest improvement (43.8%) and Wikipedia yielding the highest (54.3%) (Table A.6). The boost in performance by adding the secret cue depends on the specific definition used; the secret cue has a bigger effect when using the Merriam-Webster and Albertson (2015) definitions (Figure A.3). Where does GPT-3 perform poorly? Most unrecognized dogwhistles are part of the informal register, especially symbols (e.g. the transphobic spiderweb or cherry emojis). Other unrecognized dogwhistles include “Operation Google” terms (e.g. Skype, Yahoo), more recent terms (e.g. Let’s Go Brandon), and several antisemitic and transphobic dogwhistles whose covert meanings are especially context-dependent (e.g. adult human female, XX, (Wikipedia) early life, fellow white people). Unrecognized formal dogwhistles tend to be extremely subtle and nuanced (e.g. Dred Scott as a conservative anti-abortion dogwhistle) or are highlyconventionalized phrases that may be far more commonly used without the covert implicature (e.g. the antisemitic dogwhistle poisoning the well). Where does GPT-3 perform well? GPT-3 readily identifies Islamophobic dogwhistles (e.g. radical Islam, Barack Hussein Obama), many antisemitic conspiracy theories (e.g. Khazars, Kalergi Plan, Israel Lobby), some racist dogwhistles whose covert meanings are more widely discussed among the out-group (e.g. inner-city, ghetto, thug, war on drugs, black-on-black crime), some alt-right memes (e.g. Pepe the Frog), and conservative political rhetoric (e.g. balance the budget, judicial activism, job creators). A.3 Details for toxicity detection Table A.7 shows a sample of the 237 hateful sentence templates used from HateCheck (Röttger et al., 2021). We used the subset of HateCheck templates labeled as hateful and containing a placeholder for an identity term in either adjectival, singular nominal, or plural nominal form. We filled in these placeholders with either a standard group label, dogwhistle, or slur for three personae: antisemitic, racist, and transphobic. Specific terms used can be found in Table A.8. For all personae and toxicity measures provided by Perspective API, dogwhistles are rated as less toxic than slurs and standard group labels (Figure A.4. Interestingly, except for the N-word, Perspective seems to not recognize the extreme offensiveness of most slurs, and thus toxicity