Title: Modeling Empathic Similarity in Personal Narratives
Authors: Jocelyn Shen, Maarten Sap, Pedro Colon-Hernandez, Hae Won Park, Cynthia Breazeal
Section: 9 Conclusion
stories, and what aspects users focus on. Furthermore, future work could explore training using a contrastive setup to learn more contextualized story embeddings. Lastly, future work should explore longitudinal effects of recieving stories retrieved by our system. Our survey measures (State Empathy Scale) are used for short, quick assessments of immediate empathy rather than “fixed” or “trait” empathy. While our model might perform well in this one-shot interaction settings, it is also important to study the last empathic effects of reading stories retrieved by the model and measure changes in a user’s longer term empathy, mood, and feelings of connection. Ethics Statement While such a system might foster empathy and connectedness, it is important to consider the potential harms brought about by this work. As with many recommenders, our model is susceptible to algorithmic biases in the types of stories it retrieves, as well as creating an echo chamber for homogeneous perspectives (Kirk et al., 2023). Embedding diversity in the recommended stories is important in both broadening the perspective of users and preventing biases. Many social platforms struggle with the issue of content moderation and content safety. In its proposed state, our model does not do anything to guarantee the safety of content that is shared with users. Hateful speech and triggering experiences should not be propagated by our model regardless of the extent to which users relate to these stories (Goel et al., 2023; Lima et al., 2018). Finally, the goal of our work is to connect people to other human experiences. Story generation and NLG that aims to mimic or appropriate human experiences is not something we endorse, and we encourage the use of machine-text detectors in systems that retrieve empathic stories. In line with Oren Etzioni (2018)’s three rules of AI, we also discourage presenting humans with machinegenerated stories without disclosing that the story is written by an AI author.