Title: Comparison of the structures and topologies of plasma extracted circulating nuclear and mitochondrial cell-free DNA
Authors: Ekaterina Pisareva, Benoit Roch, Cynthia Sanchez, Brice Pastor, Alexia Mirandola, Mona Diab-Assaf, Thibault Mazard, Corinne Prévostel, Zahra Al Amir Dache, Alain R. Thierry, Matteo Pellegrini
Section: Discussion
mono-nucleosomes (Table 1). This was concordant with a previous report (Neuberger et al., 2021). In contrast, cir-mtDNA appeared preponderantly associated with extracellular mitochondria either free or in large EVs fraction (~75.7%), while being associated with small EVs (~18.4%), and with exosomes or protein complexes (~5.9%) (Table 1). While the plasma prepared without platelet activation contained much less cir-mtDNA (67-fold less), exMT nonetheless still represents the preponderant fraction of the total detected cirmtDNA amount, compared to mtDNA containing EVs (Table 1). The paucity of the cir-mtDNA encapsulating microparticles/ exosomes (Table 1) clearly confirms the need for specific isolation methods for their examination. We believe that certain controversies in previous literature arose from improper conclusions based on a confusion between cirmtDNA and cir-nDNA, and the belief that at least part of their release derive from the same mechanisms. Consequently, we propose that future studies should systematically include a Frontiers in Genetics frontiersin.org10 Pisareva et al. 10.3389/fgene.2023.1104732 Fro n tie rs in G e n e tics fro n tie rsin .o rg 11 P isare va e t al. 10 .3 3 8 9 /fg e n e .2 0 2 3 .110 4 73 2 Fro n tie rs in G e n e tics fro n tie rsin .o rg 12 P isare va e t al. 10 .3 3 8 9 /fg e n e .2 0 2 3 .110 4 73 2 measurement of both entities, to circumscribe their respective physiological impact and diagnostic power. By comparison with cir-nDNA, the structural features of cir-mtDNA appear more complex and diverse. This is principally due to the release of exMT in interstitial milieu or blood circulation from various cell types, and due to the lack of stabilizing mitochondrial components that would enable protection from extracellular nuclease degradation. Our work suggests the preponderance of cir-nDNA inmononucleosomes and of cir-mtDNA in exMT, highlighting their profound differences as regards their circulating structural forms. While the pre-analytics currently used for cir-nDNA appear satisfactory (Meddeb et al., 2019a), our data highlight the need for specific pre-analytics for cir-mtDNA. In addition, cir-nDNA and especially cir-mtDNA are both associated with different structures that might have significant differences in their respective diagnostic potentials. It is therefore necessary to better extend our knowledge of cirDNA structures of origin, and to standardize the preparation of biological material, in order to fully determine and optimize the promise of cirDNA in clinical and routine settings.