Title: Comparison of the structures and topologies of plasma extracted circulating nuclear and mitochondrial cell-free DNA
Authors: Ekaterina Pisareva, Benoit Roch, Cynthia Sanchez, Brice Pastor, Alexia Mirandola, Mona Diab-Assaf, Thibault Mazard, Corinne Prévostel, Zahra Al Amir Dache, Alain R. Thierry, Matteo Pellegrini
Section: Discussion
at a g-force of approximately 2,000 g; microvesicles at 10,000–30,000 g; and exosomes by ultracentrifugation at 100,000–200,000 g. We may assume that EVs could contain either extracellular mitochondria (exMT) or fragmented mtDNA genome. Using sequencing analysis, a previous report demonstrated the presence of only intact full mitochondrial genomes in the plasma cirDNA fraction (Newell et al., 2018), confirming our previous observation (Al Amir Dache et al., 2020). They speculate that mtDNA could be protected from degradation by circulating nucleases due to either EVs encapsulation or the circular nature of mtDNA potentially delaying its degradation (Newell et al., 2018). This study does not account formtDNAplatelet origin, however, as they used an SPP equivalent process. Based upon our observation that the proportion of cir-mtDNA of size below 1,000 bp is very weak (Roch et al., 2021), we infer that fragmented mtDNA between 1,000 bp and 16,000 bp, the approximate mitochondria full length genome, is barely associated with EVs (<0.5%). In contrast, our data based on the PPw/ oPA revealed that 1.7% of the cir-mtDNA is associated with exosomes, and 18.4%mainly associatedwith small EVs. Thus, when taking together fragmentomics and plasma fractionation data, we infer that a fraction, at least, of EVs contains mitochondrial full length circular DNA or mitochondria particles that could be internally or externally associated with EVs. Thus, we do not preclude the possibility that mitochondria particle free mtDNA may exist in blood circulation in association with EVs, as reported previously (Malkin et al., 2022). However, its amount corresponds to a minor fraction of the total cirmtDNA. In previous work (Al Amir Dache et al., 2020), our transmission electronic microscopy examinations showed no evidence of exMT encapsulated in or associated with bilayer phospholipidic vesicles or membranes. Moreover, our study combining LP-WGS and Q-PCR analysis showed that fragmented mtDNA of size below 1,000 bp exist in extremely small quantities (<1%, (Roch et al., 2021)). Consequently, our data associated with others (Chiu et al., 2003; Newell et al., 2018; Al Amir Dache et al., 2020) show that mtDNA detected in plasma correspond quasi-exclusively to cir-exMT. By combining specific DNA quantification of cirDNA extracts deriving from plasma preparations avoiding platelet activation submitted to differential centrifugation and/or physical examination, our work reveals profound differences between cirmtDNA and cir-nDNA in terms of size distribution, structure and mechanism of release. Thus, our data suggest that cir-nDNA is associated with ~8.6% of large structures (apoptotic bodies, large EVs, cell debris. . .), ~27.7% in chromatin and small EVs and ~63.7% in exosomes, protein complexes and oligo- or