Title: Comparison of the structures and topologies of plasma extracted circulating nuclear and mitochondrial cell-free DNA
Authors: Ekaterina Pisareva, Benoit Roch, Cynthia Sanchez, Brice Pastor, Alexia Mirandola, Mona Diab-Assaf, Thibault Mazard, Corinne Prévostel, Zahra Al Amir Dache, Alain R. Thierry, Matteo Pellegrini
Section: Discussion
on plasma from five healthy individuals. Comparison of the concentrations [(A), ng/mL], and variations [(B), %)] of circulating nuclear DNA (cir-nDNA, grey) and circulating mitochondrial DNA (cir-mtDNA, blue) in plasma as prepared by the protocol without platelet activation. cirDNA concentration was determined in the supernatant following the subsequent centrifugation steps of the respective supernatant at 16,000 g, 40,000 g and 200,000 g. ns, non-statistically significant; *p < 0.05, **p < 0.01; ****p < 0.0001. Frontiers in Genetics frontiersin.org08 Pisareva et al. 10.3389/fgene.2023.1104732 be due to the low hybridization forces of the lower-sized jagged fragments leading to their peeling off from histone/nucleosome particles (Sanchez et al., 2021). Altogether, our data suggest that the proportion of cir-nDNA inserted in mono-nucleosomes, dinucleosomes, and chromatin of higher molecular size (>1,000 bp) in HI ranges from 67% to 80%, 9% to 12%, and 8% to 21%, respectively (Sanchez et al., 2021). Considering how useful this combined analytical approach had proved, we then applied it in an investigation of cir-mtDNA structural features. To this end, we used the cirDNA-SPP and a stringent clinically validated DNA extraction process, and followed our previously published guidelines (Meddeb et al., 2019a). As we observed with cir-nDNA from LP-WGS, cirmtDNA size profiles appeared homogenous and reproducible in the plasma of HI, whether detected by DSP-S or SSP-S (Figure 1); and in both cases, an overwhelming majority of fragments were less than 400 bp in size. This suggests that this population of short fragments is the result either of degradation by-products or of some means of cir-mtDNA protection. However, we found periodic distribution neither with DSP-S nor with SSP-S, while the DSP-S and the SSP-S mean size profiles differed significantly (Figure 1). With SSP-S, we detected a higher number of short fragments in the 50–120 nt interval, an earlier peak at 80 nt, and a faster decrease of mean percent of fragments after 80 nt, as compared with DSP-S. DSP-S showed a higher proportion of fragments in the 120–200 bp interval, with a later and lower peak, around 120 bp, and a subsequent slower decrease of mean percent of fragments after 120 bp. The significant differences between DSP-S and SSP-S may reveal a structural difference, since observation of a short population implies the protection of DNA strands by a stabilizing structure, as observed in cir-nDNA associated with nucleosomes. The clear differences existing between DSP-S and SSP-S profiles led us to believe that shorter ssDNA fragments appeared following SSP-S from jagged dsDNA, with at least one nick in one DNA strand still bound