Title: ALERT: Adapting Language Models to Reasoning Tasks
Authors: Ping Yu, Tianlu Wang, Olga Golovneva, Badr AlKhamissi, Siddharth Verma, Zhijing Jin, Gargi Ghosh, Mona Diab, Asli Celikyilmaz
Section: E More Details about Model Training
as fast as possible to get a high score, by jumping through the stage as quickly as possible. because The answer is explicit and very clear that how a user can complete levels on a video game with just a hint. OPT-FT 13B: The answer is try harder or use a guide, because The process of finding an easy way to complete levels on a video game is descriptive and logical. OPT-CoT 13B: The answer is YouTube to find out how to get past a level. because YouTube is used to find out ways to complete a game easily. REASONING SKILL: Spatial Reasoning PROMPT: Instructions: You will be given a passage consisting of set of facts and a question as input. The task is to answer a question of form ’Where is <person_name>?’ using one of the given facts to determine the latest location of the person. Answer should be a word/phrase describing the location from the supporting fact. Avoid answers that are incomplete or incorrect. Positive Examples: Input: Passage: Mary moved to the bathroom. John went to the hallway. Question: Where is Mary? Output: bathroom Input: Passage: Mary moved to the bathroom. John went to the hallway. Daniel went back to the hallway. Sandra moved to the garden. Question: Where is Daniel? Output: hallway Input: Passage: Mary moved to the bathroom. John went to the hallway. Daniel went back to the hallway. Sandra moved to the garden. John moved to the office. Sandra journeyed to the bathroom. Question: Where is Daniel? Output: hallway Input: Passage: John moved to the hallway. Mary travelled to the hallway. Sandra went to the bedroom. Sandra went back to the hallway. Question: Where is Mary? Output: REFERENCE: hallway OPT 1.3B: bathroom OPT-FT 1.3B: hallway OPT-CoT 1.3B: hallway OPT 13B: bathroom OPT-FT 13B: bathroom OPT-CoT 13B: hallway Table 12: Examples from tasks that require different reasoning skills and generated outputs. The failed outputs are highlighted in red. Outputs that are different from the reference, but can be valid because the question is ambiguous are highlighted in blue. All except the one are examples generated using prompt Template 4, last example used Template 5. ACL 2023 Responsible NLP Checklist