Faculty Name: mona diab
Paperid: 4bb86a709eb9f47242f8b7f93e9a9c24bdb74870
Title: Aspalathus linearis (Rooibos) Targets Adipocytes and Obesity-Associated Inflammation
Year: 2023
Abstract: Excess weight and obesity are the fifth leading cause of death globally, and sustained efforts from health professionals and researchers are required to mitigate this pandemic-scale problem. Polyphenols and flavonoids found in Aspalathus linearis—a plant widely consumed as Rooibos tea—are increasingly being investigated for their positive effects on various health issues including inflammation. The aim of our study was to examine the effect of Rooibos extract on obesity and the associated low-grade chronic inflammatory state by testing antioxidant activity, cytokine secretions, macrophage polarization and the differentiation of human adipocytes through the development of adipospheroids. Rooibos extract significantly decreased ROS production and the secretion of pro-inflammatory cytokines (IFN-γ, IL-12, IL-2 and IL-17a) in human leukocytes. Additionally, Rooibos extract down-regulated LPS-induced macrophage M1 polarization, shown by a significant decrease in the expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines: TNFα, IL-8, IL-6, IL-1β and CXCL10. In addition, Rooibos inhibited intracellular lipid accumulation and reduced adipogenesis by decreasing the expression of PPARγ, Ap2 and HSL in adipospheroids. A significant decrease in leptin expression was noted and this, more interestingly, was accompanied by a significant increase in adiponectin expression. Using a co-culture system between macrophages and adipocytes, Rooibos extract significantly decreased the expression of all studied pro-inflammatory cytokines and particularly leptin, and increased adiponectin expression. Thus, adding Rooibos tea to the daily diet is likely to prevent the development of obesity associated with chronic low-level inflammation.
Authors: Rawan Nehme, A. Chervet, C. Decombat, L. Longechamp, A. Rossary, Rebecca Boutin, A. Rousset, F. Sénéjoux, Caroline Vachias, C. Auxenfans, D. Fraisse, Jean-Baptiste Guyon, E. Filaire, J. Berthon, M. Diab‐Assaf, L. Delort, F. Caldefie-Chézet
Venue: Nutrients
Tldr: {'model': 'tldr@v2.0.0', 'text': 'Rooibos extract significantly decreased the expression of all studied pro-inflammatory cytokines and particularly leptin, and increased adiponectin expression, likely to prevent the development of obesity associated with chronic low-level inflammation.'}
Url: https://www.mdpi.com/2072-6643/15/7/1751/pdf?version=1680572571
