Title: ALERT: Adapting Language Models to Reasoning Tasks
Authors: Ping Yu, Tianlu Wang, Olga Golovneva, Badr AlKhamissi, Siddharth Verma, Zhijing Jin, Gargi Ghosh, Mona Diab, Asli Celikyilmaz
Section: E More Details about Model Training
Video credit: Storyful / Nathan Swarbrick @swazza1990 <sep> Hypothesis: The crowd believed they knew the name of the goose running on the field. Let’s think step by step. Output: The answer is Entailment because This is a good example, the hypothesis sentence entails the given premise. Because the crowd was chanting its name, the crowd must have believed they knew the goose’s name. Input: Premise: Notley hopeful attacks on women politicians will fade in coming year After a politically nasty year that saw women politicians face a barrage of attacks on social media and angry demonstrators shouting to have them put behind bars, Premier Rachel Notley is optimistic there will be a return to civil discourse. In a year-end interview with CBC News, Notley reflected on 2016, a year that saw hateful social-media attacks against MLA Sandra Jansen, and chants of “Lock her up” directed at the premier at an anti-carbon tax rally in Edmonton. <sep> Hypothesis: Notley reflected on the chants of "lock her up" from previous to the year 2016. Let’s think step by step. Output: The answer is Contradiction because The Premise states Notley reflected on the chants from 2016, not before 2016. In this example hypothesis sentence contradicts the given premise. Input: Premise: Mazda Sales (Thailand), a unit of Japanese carmaker Mazda Motor Corp, remains bullish about its sales prospects this year despite falling figures in the first six months, the Bangkok Post reported, citing its President Hidesuke Takesue. (bit.ly/1gr7HMd) —- NOTE: Reuters has not verified this story and does not vouch for its accuracy. (Bangkok Newsroom; Editing by Prateek Chatterjee) <sep> Hypothesis: Mazda Sales will be fired next week Let’s think step by step. Output: The answer is Neutral because In this example the hypothesis can’t be proven one way or the other based on the context. It’s set in the future and no one knows the future. So, hypothesis sentence is neutral with respect to a given premise. Input: Premise: How to clear nasal congestion quickly<br>Gently blow your nose. Perhaps the easiest and quickest way to reduce nasal congestion is to simply blow your nose into a soft tissue. Unfortunately, it’s not always possible to completely relieve congestion by merely blowing, but it’s always a good starting point. <sep> Hypothesis: strike a pose to fix your nose Let’s think step by step. Output: REFERENCE: Contradiction OPT 1.3B: The answer is Modified Contradiction because In this example the hypothesis sentence suggests the method is "Do not hit your head." In fact, that’s the phrase a