Title: A Combination of Ruthenium Complexes and Photosensitizers to Treat Colorectal Cancer
Authors: Jacquie Massoud, Bruno Therrien, Aline Pinon, Manuel Gallardo-Villagrán, Lucie Paulus, Catherine Ouk, Claire Carrion, Sayed Antoun, Mona Diab-Assaf, Bertrand Liagre
Section: 5. Conclusions
In this study, we have evaluated the anticancer efficacy of 2H-TPyP-arene-Ru and Zn-TPyParene-Ru metalla-assemblies on two human CRC cell lines, HCT116 and HT-29. We have demonstrated a strong in vitro anticancer efficacy of 2H-TPyP-arene-Ru and Zn-TPyP-arene-Ru complexes under a PDT regimen. Moreover, our results showed a stronger phototoxicity effect for the metal-free porphyrin derivative, and they confirmed that cell death occurred via an apoptotic pathway. On the other hand, the chemotherapeutic window appeared to be at a much higher concentration, suggesting that the role of the Ru atoms in the biological activity of the metallaassemblies might be superficial. However, without the presence of the arene-Ru units, the internalization of the PS into cells would have been negligible, TPyP being insoluble in biological media. Therefore, the presence of Ru is essential, and the combination of Ru and PS within metalbased assemblies remains an attractive strategy to add to the regimen of CRC treatments. Supplementary Materials: The following supporting information can be downloaded at the website of this paper posted on Preprints.org. Figure S1: Emission spectrum of the used light source (a 630-660 nm CURElight lamp (PhotoCure ASA, Oslo, Norway)). Author Contributions: Conceptualization, J.M, B.T., and B.L.; Methodology, J.M., A.P., M.G.-V., L.P., C.O. and C.C.; Validation, S.A., M.D.-A. and B.L., Writing-original draft preparation, J.M., and A.P.; Writing—review and editing, B.T., and B.L. All authors have read and agreed to the published version of the manuscript. Funding: This research was funded by the Ministère de l’Enseignement Supérieur et de la Recherche. Scientifique of France, Région Nouvelle-Aquitaine and Ligue contre le Cancer (Comité départemental 87— Haute-Vienne). Data Availability Statement: Data sharing is not applicable. Acknowledgments: The authors are grateful to BISCEm unit (Univ. Limoges, CNRS, Inserm, CHU Limoges, UAR 2015, US 42) for technical support regarding cytometry and microscopy experiments. Conflicts of Interest: The authors declare no conflict of interest. Abbreviation: ATCC: American Type Culture Collection / CRC: Colorectal cancer / DMEM: Gibco Dulbecco's Modified Eagle Medium / DMSO: Dimethyl sulfoxide / DNA: deoxyribonucleic acid / FBS: Fetal Bovine Serum / ØF: Fluorescence Quantum Yield / HEPES: 4-(2-hydroxyethyl)-1-piperazine ethane sulfonic acid / H2O2: Hydrogen peroxide / HRP: Horseradish Peroxidase / IARC: International Agency for Research on Cancer / IC50: median inhibiting concentration / kDa: Kilodalton / MTT: 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide / 1O2: Singlet oxygen / PARP: Poly-ADP-ribose polymerase / PBS: Phosphate-buffered saline / PDT: Photodynamic therapy / PI: Propidium Iodide / PS: Photosensitizer / PVDF membrane: Polyvinylidene fluoride membrane / RIPA: Radio immuno precipitation Assay / ROS: Reactive oxygen species / RPMI: Roswell Park Memorial