Title: ALERT: Adapting Language Models to Reasoning Tasks
Authors: Ping Yu, Tianlu Wang, Olga Golovneva, Badr AlKhamissi, Siddharth Verma, Zhijing Jin, Gargi Ghosh, Mona Diab, Asli Celikyilmaz
Section: E More Details about Model Training
a short explanation after the answer. Input: How do you remove keys from a computer keyboard for cleaning? Let’s think step by step. Output: The answer is Place the tip of a knife under the corner of a key and gently twist to pop it off. because The process of removing keys from a keyboard for cleaning is descriptive and logical. Input: How can you dry wet replacement computer keyboard keys? Let’s think step by step. Output: The answer is by arranging paper towels on the counter and evenly spacing out each key to dry, face side up, on top of them. because The steps involved in the process of drying wet replacement keyboard keys are logical. Input: To coat small plastic objects like replacement keyboard keys with soap Let’s think step by step. Output: The answer is place them, water and liquid dishsoap in a sealed container. Shake vigorously until the container is completely full of foam. because The process of coating small plastic objects like replacement keys is descriptive and logical. Input: How do you cut gnocchi without a knife? Let’s think step by step. Output: The answer is Press the edge of a spoon down into the dough to cut it. because The answer is quite detailed about the method to cut gnocchi when knife is not available. Input: How do you taste something? Let’s think step by step. Output: The answer is Place it in your mouth to taste. because To taste something one has to keep it in contact with the tongue. Hence it is logical to put it in the mouth to taste. Input: How do you wear a bracelet? Let’s think step by step. Output: The answer is Put it on around your wrist. because Bracelet is worn around wrists. Hence it is correct answer. Input: To find an easy way to complete levels on a video game, Let’s think step by step. Output: REFERENCE: look up cheat codes to make the rules of the game different or null. OPT 1.3B: The answer is Enter key without pressing. because How to find the perfect way to complete levels on a video game is logical and descriptive. OPT-FT 1.3B: It tells you the easiest way to get all the coins and medals and the fastest way to get through the level. OPT-CoT 1.3B: The answer is play the game. because If you play a game to finish the levels then you can call it a game. OPT 13B: The answer is Complete the level