Title: The Troubling Emergence of Hallucination in Large Language Models – An Extensive Definition, Quantification, and Prescriptive Remediations
Authors: Vipula Rawte, Swagata Chakraborty, Agnibh Pathak, Anubhav Sarkar, S.M Towhidul Islam Tonmoy, Aman Chadha, Amit Sheth, Amitava Das
Section: 
a limited set of likely next words based on the preceding context. Fig. 10 illustrates an example of the entropy distribution over the set of words in an input sentence. In sentence 1, [MASK] token has low entropy since capital is the highest probable word in that sentence. However, [MASK] token in sentence 2 has high entropy since it is quite uncertain as to what the masked token could be. The probability distributions for this illustration are created using the HuggingFace Inference API (HuggingFace_InferenceAPI). F Mitigation Techniques: The specifics In addition to the Fig. 4 provided in Section 6, we now present two additional illustrative examples in Table 7 and Table 8 to demonstrate the practical application of two different mitigation techniques. fragments, C - replaced text, D - highlighted text for no information found, and E - refuted text fragments by textual entailment. fragments, C - replaced text, D - highlighted text for no information found, and E - refuted text fragments by textual entailment. F.1 ENTROPYBB Building upon Section 6, Tables 9 to 23 illustrate the examples of the nuanced categorization of hallucination proposed in the paper. F.2 Evaluation strategy - how to determine no hallucination after mitigation? In order to assess the absence of hallucination following the implementation of the mitigation techniques ENTROPYBB and FACTUALITYGB, a random sample of 2,000 data points was taken. This sample included 500 instances each of IFM, EFM, ISL, and ESL, ensuring a well-balanced distribution of the six hallucination categories within the data. Following the implementation of the ENTROPYBB method, which involved replacing words and phrases, we conducted a manual evaluation of the 2,000 samples. This evaluation, carried out by six annotators, aimed to assess whether hallucination was alleviated or not. For the FACTUALITYGB method, we assumed that if the sentences were rewritten by humans, there would be no presence of hallucination. Therefore, for the highlighted sentences, hallucination was deemed waived. Results of this evaluation are reported in Fig. 5 and Table 24. F.3 Performance of ENTROPYBB vs. FACTUALITYGB Fig. 5 and Table 24 give a relative analysis of our two proposed mitigation techniques described in Section 6. We report the actual values in the Table 24. Our empirical findings indicate that ENTROPYBB technique primarily tackles less complex hallucination categories such as acronym ambiguity and numeric issues. However, FACTUALITYGB technique is more applicable for dealing with more complex cases of hallucinations. Therefore, it is quite evident that a combination of both black- and gray-box methods would be the future direction of research.