Title: PAMR1 negatively impacts cell proliferation and migration of Human Colon Cancer HT29 Cell Line
Authors: Layla Haymour, Alain Chaunavel, Mona Diab Assaf, Abderrahman Maftah, Sébastien Legardinier
Section: RESULTS AND DISCUSSION
of HeLa and Me180 cells proliferation, migration and invasion as a result of PAMR1 knockdown. On the other hand, a huge PAMR1 overexpression in these cell lines reduced these effects.(Yang et al., 2021). Silencing PAMR1 expression in CRC might be due to promoter hypermethylation Molecular events leading to PAMR1 downregulation in colorectal cancer as early as in stage I is unidentified yet; however, recovering its expression could be through the use of drug treatments as the case in other cancers (Lo et al., 2015) and with other suppressed genes (Zhu et al., 2018). Recovering the tumor suppressor effect of PAMR1 in breast cancer was through treatment with demethylation agent, 5-aza2’deoxycytine2 (Lo et al., 2015). Since PAMR1 was inactivated due to epigenetic silencing through promoter hypermethylation in breast cancer cells, 5-aza2’deoxycytine2 led to PAMR1 re-expression, thus reduction of cancer cell growth. To assess whether PAMR1 downexpression in CRC is due to its epigenetic silencing, treatments with demethylation agents could be performed. However, this treatment is not specific of PAMR1 and other tumor suppressor genes might be re-expressed following the use of this non-specific demethylating agent. The precise mechanism action of PAMR1 remains to be elucidated The mechanism of action of PAMR1 is still unknown but PAMR1, which is a secreted multidomain protein, could interact with one or several proteins expressed on the cell surface or present in the extracellular space. We can hypothesize that its protein partners, potentially different according to the cell type, could modulate its action. In the physiological state, PAMR1 could participate to the maintenance of a normal proliferation rate of different cell types. However, the suppression of its expression, by epigenetic inactivation or by other molecular events, in cancer cells undoubtedly participates to their increased proliferation. PAMR1 was thus recently considered as a tumor suppressor gene (Yang et al., 2021). In conclusion, we confirmed the down expression of PAMR1 in colorectal cancer. The overexpression of PAMR1 is crucial for reduction of cell proliferation and migration of colorectal cancer cells. By that, PAMR1 could be predicted as an early biomarker and tumor suppressor of colorectal cancer. However, its mechanism of action is to be investigated. FIGURES D C A B D C B manner. (A) Expression of PAMR1 in normal and tumoral cancer samples from TCGA Firebrowse database (http://firebrowse.org/). PAMR1’s expression is downregulated in Cervical and Endocervical Cancers (CESC), Colon Adenocarcinoma (COAD), Colorectal Adenocarcinoma (COADREAD) and Rectal Adenocarcinoma (READ) tumoral samples compared to normal ones. (B, C, D and E) RNA Seq data Analysis showed a significant PAMR1