Title: ALERT: Adapting Language Models to Reasoning Tasks
Authors: Ping Yu, Tianlu Wang, Olga Golovneva, Badr AlKhamissi, Siddharth Verma, Zhijing Jin, Gargi Ghosh, Mona Diab, Asli Celikyilmaz
Section: E More Details about Model Training
person who is rolling around on the ground, or who has had their head hit a hard surface while trying to get a good sleeper on the sheets should try. Why is this? A head-on collision will ... [continues to hallucinate for 23 steps] OPT-FT 1.3B: Answer: Blow your nose into a soft tissue. OPT-CoT 1.3B: The answer is Contradiction because The hypothesis states that Nastai will solve his and nasal congestion only by blowing into his nose, but that’s not necessarily true, because he could have blown into his nose and caused irritation as well. OPT 13B: The answer is Yes because The answer is Yes. All the above information about clearing the nose is proven by the given premise, but if you still don’t know the answer, then we suggest you go here and click on "How to clear your nose naturally" page. OPT-FT 13B: The answer: contradiction OPT-CoT 13B: The answer is contradiction because One cannot blow their nose if they have struck a pose. REASONING SKILL: Analogical Reasoning PROMPT: Please give a short explanation after the answer. Input: throw : fly. aspire : ? Let’s think step by step. Output: The answer is attain because Fly is a causation of throw. Hence, the inferred analogy being causation, attain is the causation of aspire. Input: listen : hear. drop : ? Let’s think step by step. Output: The answer is fall because Hear is a causation of listen. Hence, the inferred analogy being causation, the causation of drop is fall. Input: hit : shatter. nourish : ? Let’s think step by step. Output: The answer is grow because Shatter is a causation of hit. Hence, the inferred analogy being causation, the causation of nourish is grow. Input: throw : fly. ignite : ? Let’s think step by step. Output: REFERENCE: burn OPT 1.3B: The answer is move because fly is a causation of ignite. Hence, the inferred analogy being causation, the causation of move is fly. OPT-FT 1.3B: The answer is throw OPT-CoT 1.3B: The answer is ignite because Fire is a causation of throw. Hence, the inferred analogy being causation, the causation of ignite is fly. OPT 13B: The answer is evaporate because Fly is a causation of throw. Hence, the inferred analogy being causation, the causation of evaporate is ignite. OPT-FT 13B: The answer is fly because Ignite is a causation of throw OPT-CoT 13B: The answer is grow because Throw is a causation of grow. REASONING SKILL: Commonsense reasoning, Spatial Reasoning PROMPT: Please give