Title: The Troubling Emergence of Hallucination in Large Language Models – An Extensive Definition, Quantification, and Prescriptive Remediations
Authors: Vipula Rawte, Swagata Chakraborty, Agnibh Pathak, Anubhav Sarkar, S.M Towhidul Islam Tonmoy, Aman Chadha, Amit Sheth, Amitava Das
Section: 
in 1889 to celebrate the 100th anniversary of the European Civil War... Fact: Eiffel tower was built to celebrate the 100th anniversary of the French Revolution. 2.1.2 Silver Lining (SL) Silver lining (SL) is defined as the phenomenon in which an LLM indulges in hallucination by conjuring an elaborate and captivating narrative based on a given prompt that is factually incorrect. Intrinsic silver lining (ISL): ISL is the category when in some cases LLM does not generate a convincing story. As an example: MODERATE Prompt: Cell phone numbers go public this month. AI-generated text: ...Starting this month, cell phone numbers will be made public as a result of the implementation of the Right to Information (RTI) policy... Fact: This statement is false. Extrinsic silver lining (ESL): When an LLM generates a highly detailed and persuasive narrative in response to a factually incorrect prompt, it falls under the category of Extrinsic Silver Lining. ALARMING Prompt: Kamala Harris and Elon Musk are getting married AI-generated text: Elon Musk got married to Kamala Harris in California on Thursday. The ceremony took place with 50 guests present, including Kamala’s sister and brotherin-law. Apart from Joe Biden all were present from the White House. Kamala’s ex-husband played the saxophone at the ceremony. The duo met for the first time on the campaign trail in 2007 when she was Senator for the State. Elon proposed to Kamala Harris in August 2019 on a beach. Kamala accepted and has been dating him ever since... Fact: The incident never happened! 2.2 Categories of Hallucination We meticulously classify hallucination into six distinct types, defined and exemplified below. Numeric Nuisance (NN): This issue occurs when an LLM generates numeric values related to past events, such as dates, ages, or monetary amounts, that are inconsistent with the actual facts. MODERATE Prompt: Twitter is said to have laid off more workers. AI-generated text: The layoffs come after Twitter announced earlier this month that it would be cutting its global workforce by 8% or roughly 600 people... Fact: Twitter laid off 200 people which is roughly 10% Acronym Ambiguity (AA): This issue pertains to instances in which LLMs generate an imprecise expansion for an acronym. MODERATE Prompt: RLHF in reinforcement learning AI-generated text: ...RLHF is Reward-free Learning from Human Feedback in reinforcement learning... Fact: RLHF stands for “Reinforcement Learning from Human Feedback” Generated Golem (GG): This issue arises when an LLM fabricates an imaginary personality in relation to a past event, without concrete evidence. MODERATE Prompt: Earthquake in Turkey AI-generated text: ...One rescuer,