Title: PAMR1 negatively impacts cell proliferation and migration of Human Colon Cancer HT29 Cell Line
Authors: Layla Haymour, Alain Chaunavel, Mona Diab Assaf, Abderrahman Maftah, Sébastien Legardinier
Section: RESULTS AND DISCUSSION
was found to be the most sensitive CRC cell line to exogenous treatment with recombinant PAMR1, compared to HCT116 and SW620. HT29 cells were first stably transfected with pCDNA3.1[hPAMR1 isoform1] or empty pCDNA3.1 vector. Hygromycin-resistant cells were selected and amplified to be analyzed by both RT-qPCR and Western blot (Figure 6). As expected, mock cells, represented hygromycin-resistant cells obtained after integration of empty vector, did not express PAMR1 at the transcript level (Figure 6A) and protein level using the anti-PAMR1 antibody (Figure 6B). However, the quantity of mRNA increased significantly for the pool and clone 2 (Figure 6A). The pool corresponded to a combination of several clones overexpressing different levels of PAMR1 whereas “Clone 2” from the pool was selected for its highest overexpression of human PAMR1 among all selected hygromycin-resistant clones. This reflects the overall low expression of PAMR1 in the Pool, with different clones exhibiting a relatively low expression level. The anti-PAMR1 antibody used for Western blot allowed the specific detection of 20 X concentrated overexpressed human PAMR1 isoform 1 at the expected size for the pool and clone 2 (Figure 6B). However, a strong specific band was also detected by anti-PAMR1 antibody at a higher apparent molecular weight around 120 kDa for clone 2. This suggests that beyond a certain concentration in the culture medium, PAMR1 was unstable and probably prone to form protein aggregates as seen for mouse PAMR1 purified after its ammonium sulfate precipitation (Figure 4B). This could also result from protein concentration of the secretome by ultrafiltration. The biological effects of PAMR1 overexpression were assessed for all stably transfected cell lines and for non-modified HT29. No significant change was observed for cell proliferation (Figure 7A) and cell viability (Figure 7B) in stable cell lines overexpressing PAMR1 (Pool, clone 2) compared to WT HT29 or to Mock. For cell migration, the gap closure was almost seen at 144h for WT HT29 but not for the Cl2 and Pool stable cell lines, where the gap remained unclosed (Figure 7C). Thus, the quantification of gap closure showed a significant difference between stable cell lines and HT29 but not between cells overexpressing PAMR1 and Mock (Figure 7D). All these results could be explained by the insufficient quantity of PAMR1 expressed by stable cell lines compared to previous studies (Yang et al., 2021). The increase of PAMR1 quantity significantly reduced cell proliferation of HT29 cells Since HT29 cell line was shown to be sensitive to recombinant mouse PAMR1 when added in culture medium but not to in cellulo human