Title: Comparison of the structures and topologies of plasma extracted circulating nuclear and mitochondrial cell-free DNA
Authors: Ekaterina Pisareva, Benoit Roch, Cynthia Sanchez, Brice Pastor, Alexia Mirandola, Mona Diab-Assaf, Thibault Mazard, Corinne Prévostel, Zahra Al Amir Dache, Alain R. Thierry, Matteo Pellegrini
Section: Discussion
to the structure protecting the DNA from nuclease attack. Only a few existing reports contributed to characterize cirmtDNA structure. Chiu et al. (Chandrananda et al., 2015) initiated efforts towards this goal, and indirectly showed that cir-mtDNA may consist of both particle-associated and nonparticle-associated forms of mtDNA in plasma. By PE sequencing analysis, a report (Chandrananda et al., 2015) indicated that microbial and mtDNA are exposed to similar degradation processes, having observed that the fragmentation profiles of microbial and mtDNA in plasma were highly similar. Like Jiang et al. (Jiang et al., 2015), they also reported that cir-mtDNA size distribution is consistently shorter than cir-nDNA. Since mtDNA cannot be packed as nDNA with histones within nucleosome, both stated that cir-mtDNA is more susceptible to enzymatic degradation, given that its size profile reflects traces of wide range-sized mtDNA under dynamic degradation. Furthermore, Chandrananda et al. found that SSP-S is more effective than DSP-S at recovering bacterial, viral and mitochondrial cirDNA (Chandrananda et al., 2015). These results may challenge the common paradigm, which considers fragments of cir-mtDNA below 400 bp as consisting only of degradation products (Chandrananda et al., 2015). Burhnam et al. later confirmed this statement (Burnham et al., 2016). Consequently, our findings lead to a profound revision of previous assumptions regarding the significance of the cirmtDNA amounts detected in our and other previous works (Chiu et al., 2003; Jiang et al., 2015; Meddeb et al., 2019a; Bezdan et al., 2020; Grabuschnig et al., 2020; Li et al., 2020; Liu et al., 2020; Hägg et al., 2021). First, it can no longer be considered valid to examine short cir-mtDNA fragments (in particular under 1,000 bp) using DNA fragmentation index as determined by Q-PCR (Ellinger et al., 2009; Zonta et al., 2015; Meddeb et al., 2019b; Tanos et al., 2020) or using WGS (Chandrananda et al., 2015; Jiang et al., 2015)) when considering the overall cir-mtDNA population, since it accounts for a very tiny part of the cir-mtDNA amount. Despite their low plasma content, mtDNA blood degradation products might nonetheless be relevant when considering differential enzymatic activity which may occur in certain physiological or pathological conditions, as suggested for cir-nDNA (Serpas et al., 2019; Sanchez et al., 2021). Uncertainty as to the nature of the short cir-mtDNA fragments population nonetheless appears of minor importance, since its proportion to the total cirDNA fragments is very low: (i), the cirmtDNA mean number corresponded to 0.006% and 0.012% of the total cirDNA fragments (Supplementary Table S2), when using DSP-S and SSP-S, respectively; (ii), there are nearly