Title: Comparison of the structures and topologies of plasma extracted circulating nuclear and mitochondrial cell-free DNA
Authors: Ekaterina Pisareva, Benoit Roch, Cynthia Sanchez, Brice Pastor, Alexia Mirandola, Mona Diab-Assaf, Thibault Mazard, Corinne Prévostel, Zahra Al Amir Dache, Alain R. Thierry, Matteo Pellegrini
Section: Discussion
out a variety of experiments, based on physical examination and various plasma preparations. This led to a number of striking observations. First, we observed that, compared to the consecutive two-step centrifugation, the frozen storage step between LS and HS, as conventionally performed in the cirDNA-SPP, led to an increase by at least 10-fold of cirmtDNA plasma concentration, whereas similar levels of cirnDNA concentration were found (Supplementary Table S4A). It should be noted that very recent work has reported similar observations (Wong et al., 2021). This means that freezing disrupts some structures in a way that leads to the release of cir-mtDNA but not cir-nDNA. Second, HS dramatically reduced the resulting plasma cir-mtDNA concentration by about 99%, as compared to the 1,200 g plasma supernatant, whereas both supernatants revealed equivalent levels of cir-nDNA (Figures 3A, B, Supplementary Table S4A). This means that cir-mtDNA are mostly contained in or associated with structures whose densities correspond to that of cell organelles, membrane debris or apoptotic bodies. Third, filtration of the plasma supernatant obtained following a 1,200 g centrifugation resulted in a loss of nearly 99% of detected cir-mtDNA, whereas no significant change was observed for cir-nDNA (Figures 3A, B, Supplementary Table S4A). This means that most of the cir-mtDNA are associated with structures whose size is over 0.22 µm. Note, our observations point to the existence of particles containing mtDNA in the circulation, as it has been previously indicated by plasma filtrates (Chiu et al., 2003; Malkin et al., 2022). In addition, our data agree with Arance-Criado’s observation (Arance-Criado et al., 2020), in HI, of a 99.4% decrease of cir-mtDNA following the HS step using a protocol equivalent to the cirDNA-SPP (Supplementary Table S4A). Taken together, these data suggest that nearly all detected cirmtDNA derive from larger or denser biological structures, in contrast to cir-nDNA. Aside from circulating cell-free mitochondria (cir-exMT) origin (Al Amir Dache et al., 2020), plasma-derived mtDNA could originate from other structures: remaining cells, in association with cell debris or membranes, mitochondria, or EVs (Malkin et al., 2022). While exosomes, and apoptotic bodies could be considered as EVs, we arbitrarily differentiated here four types of vesicles: large EVs, small EVs, exosomes, and apoptotic bodies. They may be differentiated based upon their biogenesis, release pathways, content, and function (Doyle and Wang, 2019), andmay show significant differences in size. Microvesicles, exosomes and apoptotic bodies typically range from 100 nm up to 1 μm, <200 nm and >1 µm in diameter, respectively (Doyle and Wang, 2019). Differential centrifugations allow their isolation: apoptotic bodies