Title: PAMR1 negatively impacts cell proliferation and migration of Human Colon Cancer HT29 Cell Line
Authors: Layla Haymour, Alain Chaunavel, Mona Diab Assaf, Abderrahman Maftah, Sébastien Legardinier
Section: RESULTS AND DISCUSSION
three CRC cell lines as it was the case for HeLa cells studied here, consistent with the previous study on cervical cancer (Yang et al., 2021). The failure of detection of PAMR1 protein signal by Western blot from the crude secretome or intracellular proteins of these cell lines (data not shown) confirms qPCR results. Surprisingly, we were also not able to detect PAMR1 in crude secretome of CCD841CoN, probably due to low sensitivity of the antibody used or a too low secretion of PAMR1 in spite of its good expression at the transcript level. In compatibility with data from FireBrowse database, we thus ascertained the downregulated expression of PAMR1 in three colorectal cell lines of different stages and in HeLa cells, representing the cervical cancer. Production of recombinant PAMR1 for exogenous treatments of cancer cell lines In a first approach, we wanted to produce recombinant human PAMR1 in order to carry out exogenous treatments of the three available CRC lines. These exogenous treatments required to produce human PAMR1 in an expression system and to purify it in the view of its addition to culture medium of non–modified cancer cell lines. As in our previous study (Pennarubia et al., 2020), stable CHO cell lines were generated to produce secreted forms of both isoforms 1 and 2 for human PAMR1, with N-terminal Histidine and V5 tags. Unfortunately, the expression level of both isoforms was much lower than for mouse HisV5-PAMR1, even undetectable for the canonical isoform 1 of human PAMR1 (data not shown). Thus, we chose the baculovirus insect cell system to express human PAMR1 isoforms 1 and 2. However, human PAMR1 expressed in the baculovirus-insect cell expression system was not very stable, prone to form aggregates and subjected to degradation both during its production and its purification. For all these reasons, only small quantities of the recombinant human PAMR1 were produced (data not shown) but did not allow to perform exogenous treatments of cancer cell lines with doses up to 5 µg/mL. Taking into consideration that mouse recombinant PAMR1 exhibits 90.3 % identity with the isoform 1 of human PAMR1 and whose level rate of production in stable CHO cells was much better, as previously shown (Pennarubia et al., 2020), we chose to rely on mouse PAMR1 to perform exogenous treatments. As shown in Figure 4A, significant differences of production were not seen in complete or serum-free medium for recombinant mouse PAMR1, detected by Anti-V5-HRP antibody around 95 kDa. However, a specific signal also appeared at about 50 kDa at 96h,