Title: ALERT: Adapting Language Models to Reasoning Tasks
Authors: Ping Yu, Tianlu Wang, Olga Golovneva, Badr AlKhamissi, Siddharth Verma, Zhijing Jin, Gargi Ghosh, Mona Diab, Asli Celikyilmaz
Section: E More Details about Model Training
think step by step. Output: The answer is C because This is a good example and the output correctly answers the question. Input: Dairy has things in it that would make humans sick, so in order for dairy to be edible, this process has to take place (A) mixing (B) boiling (C) freezing (D) pasteurized Let’s think step by step. Output: The answer is D because in order for dairy to be edible, this process has to take place pasteurized. So, the correct answer is "D". Input: Digestion is when stomach acid breaks down (A) a pizza (B) a house (C) a rock (D) a car Let’s think step by step. Output: The answer is A because Digestion is when stomach acid breaks down a food and only option A is a food. So, this example is correct. Input: With a ruler I can measure (A) feelings (B) love (C) air (D) a phone Let’s think step by step. Output: REFERENCE: D OPT 1.3B: A is a feeling, and all feelings come from feelings (A). Therefore, feelings are products of emotions (A). Therefore, emotions are created by emotions (A). Therefore, feelings and emotions are directly related (A). Therefore, emotions are created by emotions (A)... [repeats 249 times] OPT-FT 1.3B: A because feelings and love are measurements and air is a phone OPT-CoT 1.3B: The answer is D because With a ruler I can measure an object or range of objects and options are all to do with measuring. So, this example is correct. OPT 13B: The answer is B because With a ruler I can measure a length and only options B and D are in front of me. So, the answer is B. OPT-FT 13B: The answer is D because a phone is an object OPT-CoT 13B: The answer is A because Answer: Measure feelings With a ruler I can measure. REASONING SKILL: Casual Reasoning, Textual entailment PROMPT: Please give a short explanation after the answer. Input: Premise: If you can dream it, you can achieve it — unless you’re a goose trying to play a very human game of rugby. In the video above, one bold bird took a chance when it ran onto a rugby field mid-play. Things got dicey when it got into a tussle with another player, but it shook it off and kept right on running. After the play ended, the players escorted the feisty goose off the pitch. It was a risky move, but the crowd chanting its name was well worth it.