Title: PAMR1 negatively impacts cell proliferation and migration of Human Colon Cancer HT29 Cell Line
Authors: Layla Haymour, Alain Chaunavel, Mona Diab Assaf, Abderrahman Maftah, Sébastien Legardinier
Section: RESULTS AND DISCUSSION
PAMR1 stable overexpression, we decided to combine transfection and treatment to increase the quantity of PAMR1 in the culture medium. Same experiments were done in parallel with HeLa cells, which are cervical cancer cell lines sensitive to PAMR1 dysregulation (Yang et al., 2021). In a first approach, HT29 and HeLa cells were transiently transfected with the expression plasmid pCDNA3.1 bearing cDNA for human PAMR1 isoform 1 referred to as pCDNA-[hPAM iso1]. A second approach consisted on the overexpression of recombinant mouse PAMR1 in a stable CHO cell line already available in the lab (Pennarubia et al., 2020). The concentrated secretome of stable CHO cells was used instead of purified mouse PAMR1 to avoid protein degradation occurring during purification steps. HeLa and HT29 were transiently transfected by pCDNA3.1-hPAMR1 iso1 construct, followed by detection of PAMR1 transcript by qPCR. The results showed a pronounced increase in PAMR1 expression at RNA level compared to non-transiently transfected cells with pCDNA3.1 (Figure 8). HT29 and HeLa cells were transiently transfected by pCDNA3.1[hPAM iso1] and/or either treated with concentrated recombinant PAMR1 (or with growth medium only). Then, cell proliferation was assessed after 72h of incubation by cell counting assay (Figure 9). The presence of PAMR1 whether being overexpressed by transient transfection or exogenous treatment provoked a significant decrease of cell number for HT29 (Figure 9A) but “slightly” reduced the cell proliferation of HeLa cells (Figure 9B). Consequently, the exogenous treatment of transfected cells by recombinant PAMR1 significantly reduced cells proliferation of both HeLa and HT29 cells. So, the combination of the two approaches highly increased the quantity of PAMR1, reflecting more efficient effect, thus more pronounced reduction of cell proliferation. Cell migration of transiently transfected HT29 and HeLa cells with their control (non-transfected cells) was assessed by wound-healing assay (Figures 9C and 9D). The gap closure started after 48h for non-transfected HeLa and HT29 cells and became more pronounced after 144h hours, whereas less cell migration was observed for the transfected ones. The results obtained took more than 48h to be visualized and were not significant reflecting that PAMR1 expression level is low and not sufficient to exert a pronounced effect within a short time duration. To conclude, a significant increase of PAMR1 amount in the secretome of colorectal cancer cell lines, as well as in cervical cancer ones, significantly diminished cell proliferation but only a downward trend was observed for cell migration of both cell lines. These biological effects seem to be dependent of the level expression or quantity of PAMR1. This confirms the induction