Title: PAMR1 negatively impacts cell proliferation and migration of Human Colon Cancer HT29 Cell Line
Authors: Layla Haymour, Alain Chaunavel, Mona Diab Assaf, Abderrahman Maftah, Sébastien Legardinier
Section: RESULTS AND DISCUSSION
probably due to partial protein degradation. Recombinant mouse PAMR1 was thus produced in complete medium and harvested after 96 h maximum followed by its purification on nickel affinity column (Ni-NTA). The analysis of the eluted fraction was done by Coomassie blue staining and Western blot (Figure 4B). By comparison to Western blot, the most enriched fractions in purified monomer of PAMR1 were fractions 9 and 10. Bands with high MW (up to 130 kDa) were seen and could correspond to protein aggregates that were formed either by interaction of PAMR1 with other protein partners or due to PAMR1-PAMR1 dimer/complex formation. These aggregates were not detected by the anti-V5 antibody, contrary to monomeric recombinant mouse PAMR1 which appeared at the expected size. The most enriched elution fractions in protein of interest (Figure 4B) were then pooled and concentrated before protein quantification using the BCA method. HT-29 was the most sensitive cell line to exogenous treatment with recombinant PAMR1 Different concentrations of purified recombinant mouse PAMR1 (0, 1, 2.5, and 5 µg/mL) were added to culture medium of the three colorectal cancer cell lines, namely HCT116, HT29, and SW620 cells. To limit quantities of purified PAMR1 used, we chose to determine cell viability by using Cell Counting Assay 8 (CCK8) at different time points (0 h, 24 h, 48 h, and 72 h). Exogenous treatment with purified mouse PAMR1 had no real effect on HCT116 and SW620 cells viability despite different doses and at different time points. However, the percentage of cell viability of HT29 decreased 48h and 72h post-treatment with the highest dose of PAMR1, namely 5 µg/mL. This suggests that PAMR1 either increased cell mortality and/or decreased cell proliferation. Compared to previous studies, it was tempting to think that PAMR1 exerted an antiproliferative role with respect to HT29 (Figure 5). Cell viability assays were repeated several times, but with different preparations of purified mouse PAMR1. Each time, the results obtained ensure the sensitivity of HT29 to PAMR1. However, this effect was seen at different concentrations of purified recombinant PAMR1 depending on its purity in different preparations. This could be explained by the fact that, after concentration of elution fractions, purified mouse PAMR1 did not exhibit the same purity between preparations. Nevertheless, taking into account all of these results, we therefore chose to stably overexpress PAMR1 isoform 1 only in the HT-29 line, which exhibited a response to PAMR1 treatment. Stable overexpression of human PAMR1 did not affect HT29 cell proliferation and migration The priority of transfection went to HT29 that