Title: The Troubling Emergence of Hallucination in Large Language Models – An Extensive Definition, Quantification, and Prescriptive Remediations
Authors: Vipula Rawte, Swagata Chakraborty, Agnibh Pathak, Anubhav Sarkar, S.M Towhidul Islam Tonmoy, Aman Chadha, Amit Sheth, Amitava Das
Section: 
Hasan Cetin, said he was motivated by the thought of the survivors he helped save. “The moment when a man or a child is pulled out of the ruins, the joy of seeing them come back to life is... Fact: There is no evidence that the person Hasan Cetin exists. Virtual Voice (VV): At times LLMs generate quotations attributed to either fictional or real characters without sufficient evidence to verify the authenticity of such statements. ALARMING Prompt: Pfizer Press Release on COVID-19 vaccine AI-generated text: ...Pfizer emphasized that their vaccine demonstrated an impressive efficacy rate... Pfizer CEO said, “This is a giant leap for humanity..”... Fact: Pfizer CEO never said this. In this instance, the expression giant leap for humanity is quoted from Neil Armstrong’s renowned historical statement upon stepping onto the moon. Geographic Erratum (GE): This problem occurs when LLMs generate an incorrect location associated with an event. For example here in the first of the following two examples, Pentagon is stated to be situated in India. Time Wrap (TW): This problem entails LLMs generating text that exhibits a mashed fusion of events from different timelines. in the following case (2nd example) the U.S. president during the Ukraine-Russia war is Joe Biden, not Barack Obama, thus contradicting the factual reality. ALARMING Prompt: Prime Minister of the United Kingdom visiting India AI-generated text: ...The visit of the United Kingdom’s Prime Minister to India holds immense significance...During his journey, he will also pay a visit to the Pentagon where he is scheduled to meet with Smriti Irani, the Minister of... Fact: Pentagon is the defense headquarters of the USA, located in Washington DC, USA – not in India. ALARMING Prompt: USA on Ukraine war AI-generated text: ...U.S. President Barack Obama says the U.S. will not put troops in Ukraine... Fact: The actual U.S. president during the Ukraine-Russia war is Joe Biden. 2.3 Degrees of Hallucination We annotate the degree of hallucination using three levels: mild, moderate, and alarming (labeled as 0, 1, and 2 respectively). Mild indicates minor hallucination which is superficial in terms of its impact. Moderate indicates a level of hallucination that introduces facts that are either fictitious or tangential to the topic at hand. Alarming indicates added information pieces that bear a radical dissemblance from the topic fed via the prompt. Please refer to Appendix B for more details. 3 : HallucInation eLiciTation dataset HILT is a first-of-its-kind publicly available hallucination dataset. To construct this dataset, we have utilized two primary sources of data as prompts: (i) NYTimes