Academic Program Name:
Dual-Degree Ph.D. in Language and Information Technologies (Portugal Partnership)

Website:
https://lti.cs.cmu.edu/academics/phd-programs/dual-degree-phd-lti.html

Overview:
The LTI offers a dual-degree Ph.D. in Language and Information Technologies in cooperation with:
Universidade de Aveiro (Ph.D. in Computer Engineering), Universidade do Minho (Ph.D. in Informatics)  and the Universidade do Porto (FCUP, Ph.D. in Computer Science and FEUP, Ph.D. in Computer Science) as part of MAPi;
Universidade de Lisboa, Faculdade de Ciências – FCUL (Ph.D. in Informatics) 
Universidade de Lisboa, Instituto Superior Técnico – IST  (Ph.D. in Computer Science and Engineering, Ph.D. in Electrical and Computer Engineering, Ph.D. in Information Security)
Universidade Nova de Lisboa, Faculdade de Ciências e Tecnologia – FCTUNL (Ph.D. in Computer Science)
Universidade de Coimbra, Faculdade de Ciências e Tecnologia – FCTUC (Ph.D. in Information Science and Technology)
Students jointly enrolled in the LTI Ph.D program spend a year in Portugal, then two years at Carnegie Mellon taking classes in linguistics, computer science, statistical learning and task orientation.
After completing the majority of their academic requirements, students return to Portugal for the next two years to conduct extensive research, ultimately leading to a dissertation topic that will be publicly defended. One adviser from each institution co-supervises their student’s progress and helps to define their final thesis topic.

Requirements:
Students participating in the dual-degree program will spend their first year in Portugal, followed by two years in Pittsburgh to complete their coursework. They will complete a maximum of eight courses with a proper balance of focus areas (linguistics, computer science, statistical/learning and task orientation). After that, they will return to Portugal for their last two years, pursuing research and completing their dissertation. For more, see the Carnegie Mellon | Portugal page.

Curriculum:
While in the dual Ph.D. program, your schedule may look like this.
