Title: Pairwise Similarity Learning is SimPLE
Authors: Yandong Wen, Weiyang Liu, Yao Feng, Bhiksha Raj, Rita Singh, Adrian Weller, Michael J. Black, Bernhard Schölkopf
Section: 5.1. Open-set Face Recognition
framework is promising in the sense that it can easily adopt various score functions. Comparison with previous methods. For a comprehensive comparison, we conduct experiments under three different settings: (A) SFNet-20 trained with VGGFace2 dataset [4] (8.6K subjects), (B) SFNet-64 trained with MS1MV2 dataset (85.7K subjects), and (C) IResNet-100 trained with MS1MV2 dataset. The goal is to explore SimPLE under different network capacities and data scales. The evaluations are performed on IARPA Janus Benchmark (IJB) [42, 76]. This is a challenging dataset since it contains mixed-quality samples, e.g. low-quality video frames from surveillance cameras and high-quality images. For setting A and B, we train the face models of different methods using their released code, which ensures all methods use the same training recipes except loss functions. For setting C, we directly use the released models or results reported in their published papers, since they represent the current best performance. Setting A: small model and training set. We first explore SimPLE in a relatively lightweight setting. As can be seen from Table 3, SimPLE outperforms all competitors by large margins in both verification and identification tasks. In particular, SimPLE respectively outperforms SphereFace2 by 7.38% and 8.30% in TAR@FAR=1e-5 and TPIR@FPIR=1e2 on IJB-B dataset. Similar performance gains can also be observed on the IJB-C dataset, and it shows that SimPLE is effective for low-capacity architectures and small-scale training sets. Using cosine similarity as score function, SimPLE yields inferior results, which is consistent with the perfor- mance on the validation set. The results indicate that a lot more small insights (e.g. margin) are required before it can achieve competitive performance. Setting B and C: larger model and training set. These experiments are designed to investigate if SimPLE can benefit from larger models and training sets. Again, the comparison is conducted on the IJB datasets and the results are given in Table 4 and Table 5. We observe that SimPLE achieves competitive results on IJB datasets under both settings. Compared to other methods, SimPLE improves more at low accept rates, e.g. FPR=1e-6, 1e-5, and FPIR=1e-2. The results validate that SimPLE can benefit from a stronger backbone and more training data. Proxy-based vs Proxy-free. Both SphereFace2 and SimPLE are pair-wise learning frameworks, while SimPLE removes the proxy, angular assumption, and margin term. As shown in Tables 4 and 5, the improvement of SimPLE over SphereFace2 suggests that these dominating components might not be necessary in the open-set recognition problem. We hope this observation will encourage researchers to rethink the use of each component in the