Title: Completing Visual Objects via Bridging Generation and Segmentation
Authors: Xiang Li, Yinpeng Chen, Chung-Ching Lin, Hao Chen, Kai Hu, Rita Singh, Bhiksha Raj, Lijuan Wang, Zicheng Liu
Section: B. More Discussion
during the training. We consider this property to make it possible to further generalize MaskComp to the scenarios in which a complete object is not available. What will the marginal distribution p(I|M) and p(M |I) be like without the slack condition? The relation between mask and object image is one-to-many. The p(I|M) models a filling color operation that paints the color within the given mask area. And as each object image only corresponds to one mask, the p(M |I) is a deterministic process that can be modeled by a delta function δ. Previous methods generally leverage the unslacked setting. For example, the ControlNet assumes the given mask condition can accurately reflect the object shape and therefore, it can learn to fill colors to the masked regions. Analysis of the aggregation among masks. Given a partial object Ip, the generation model samples from a distribution that contains both realistic and unrealistic images. As shown in Fig. 10, the image distribution is typically complex and the expectation cannot represent a realistic image. However, when we consider the shape of the generated images, we are excited to find that the expectation leads to a more realistic shape. We consider this observation interesting as, for most of the other generation tasks (non-conditioned), averaging the object shape will just yield an unrealistic random shape. This observation serves as one of our core observations to build the IMD process. Here, SAM serves as the tool to extract the object shape and voting is a way to binarize the expectation of object shapes to a binary mask. Potential applications. Object completion is a fundamental technique that can boost a number of applications. For example, a straightforward application is the image editing. With the object completion, we can modify the layer of the objects in an image as we modify the components in the PowerPoint. It is possible to bring forward and edit objects as shown in Fig. 12. In addition, object completion is also an important technique for data augmentation. We hope MaskComp can shed light on more applications leveraging object completion. Background objects in the generated images. The training of CompNet aims to learn an intra-object correlation. We leverage a black background to eliminate the influence of background objects. However, we notice that even if we train the network with the black background as ground truth, it is still possible to generate irrelevant objects in the background. As shown in Fig. 11, we visualize an image that generates a leather bag near the women. We consider