Title: Rita Singh et al: Applied Aspect of Satvavajaya Chikitsa
Authors: SATVAVAJAYA CHIKITSA, Rita Singh, C. B. Singjh, Yogesh Kumar, Ajay Kumar, Shailendra Singh, Vyapashraya Bheda, Daivvyapashray Chikitsa, Yuktivyapashrya Chikitsa
Section: STANDING
about the applied aspect of the method. The Smritinasha has been regarded as a mental disease in our classics. The cause of derangement of memory is of the mind being clouded with passion and delusion 33 . 3. SAMADHI (MENTAL EQUANIMITY) It is a specialized subject of Yoga, mostly regarded either purely a spiritual science or a psychological technique to develop the ideal human personality, leading to the state of character transformation and attainment of final goal of life towards salvation. Charaka says that one who has a happy combination of his thought, speech and action, which has his mind under control, has his intellect clear and is devoted to austerities and Yoga never suffers from any disease 34 . So, it is clear that the control on mind and devotion to Yoga are very necessary even from the point of view of health. The stages of actual practice of Yoga (Samadhi) have been described in Charaka Samhita in a very brief and concise manner at two places 35 . If we analyze the whole description of Yoga, we find that the following stages are being covered in Yoga. 1. Abridging of Indriyas (Indriyani Samkshipya) - At first, we have to draw the Indriyas from the outer agencies (Arthas). 2. Stilling the fickle mind (Chanchalam Maanah Samkshipya) - There after the full mind is made doi:10.46607/iamj2011112023 | IAMJ November 2023 | www.iamj.in 2792 still. It is the second stage which is to be acquired after diverting Indriyas into Manah, because it will only then be possible to attain the stage of stillness in the activities of the mind. 3. To fix the mind into Soul36 - After withdrawing Indriyas into Manas, and getting Manas still, we have to fix our mind in the soul. Then the man becomes Vasi and due to the inaction of pain and pleasure ceases. The applications of these principles in practice have developed interpretive psychotherapy. This method of psychoanalysis was developed originally by Freud and Jung. It consists chiefly of three stages. 1. Interview, 2. Patients free expression of suppressed thought, 3. Stages of transference. The other types of Manonigraha are physician’s interference with patients mind control. This can be achieved by various ways:1. By determining the thoughts process – Chintya 2. By replacing the ideas – Vicharya 3. By channeling the presumptions - Uhya 4. By polishing the objectives – Dhyeya 5. By proper guidance for taking the right decision – Sankalpa.