Title: Token Prediction as Implicit Classification to Identify LLM-Generated Text
Authors: Yutian Chen, Hao Kang, Yiyan Zhai, Liangze Li, Rita Singh, Bhiksha Raj
Section: C Dataset Ablation Study
Table 6 has shown the performance of T5-Sentinel under different dataset cleaning methods. 0.0% 10.0% Human GPT3.5 PaLM LLaMA GPT2 0.0% 10.0% 0.0% 10.0% 0.0% 10.0% 0 100 200 300 400 500 0.0% 10.0% Fr eq ue nc y Sample Length received by T5-Sentinel (# Token) Most common punctuation in OpenLLMText dataset Frequency Figure 12: Distribution of tokens in OpenLLMText D Integrated Graident Samples Some samples of integrated gradient results are presented below. Brighter background indicates a higher integrated gradient value on the token and meaning that specific token contributes more on final prediction result. Sample 1 - 5 are randomly chosen from the test set of OpenLLMText dataset. Sample 1. Label: Human, Predicted: Human Out going US President Barack Obama said that he did not expect President - e lect Donald Trump to follow his administration ’ s blueprint s in dealing with Russia , yet hoped that Trump would " stand up " to Moscow . " My hope is that the president - e lect coming in takes a similarly constructive approach , . . . However , he repeated allegations that Russia had engaged in cyber attack s against the US . Although US intelligence officials blame d Russia for cyber attack s on the Democratic National Committee , they have not provided any substantial proof to the (. . . Truncated) Sample 2. Label: GPT3.5, Predicted: GPT3.5 Barack Obama has stated that he hopes President - e lect Donald Trump will confront Russia , despite not expecting him to follow the current administration ’ s policies . . . . W hilst he wished Russia well and acknowledged it as an important partner to the world , Obama expressed hope for Trump ’ s success " not just by its own people but by people around the world ". Obama commented that not everything that had worked for Trump (. . . Truncated) Sample 3. Label: PaLM, Predicted: PaLM HTC has had a tough year . Revenue is down , it lost a patent suit to Apple , and it d re w criticism for pulling the plug on Je lly Bean updates for some of its phones . The company needs a win , and it ’ s hoping that the D roid DNA will be it . The DNA is a high - end phone with a 5- inch 10 80 p display , the same quad - core Snapdragon chip as the Opti mus G and Nex us 4, and 2 GB