Title: Plant-Avian Frugivory in the Urban Ecosystem of Delhi
Authors: Sanjay Keshari Das
Section: Fruit traits
it is important to note that the relationship between gape size and fruit diameter is not always straight forward. Other factors, such as the shape and texture of the fruit, can also influence a bird’s ability to consume it. Additionally, some bird species may be able to manipulate larger fruits to make them easier to consume, using techniques such as pecking or breaking the fruit into smaller pieces. It is evident from our observations that synanthropic species like common myna and red-vented bulbul handled fruits depending on the fruit diameter; fruits with diameter greater than the gape size were pecked while fruits with smaller diameter were swallowed. Fruit color has also been the most extensively studied fruit trait, owing to the fact that various avian frugivores perceive different colors, and this has played a crucial role in determining the evolutionary selection of plant species. (Hill et al., 2021). Maximum fruits of black-purple followed by red color were handled by the frugivores in the present study. However, unripe green fruits of only Ficussp. were observed to be handled at the same time. This shows adaptation become an opportunistic frugivore is in process but reasons are still not clear (Snow, 1971). Fruits with dark color and high contrast against the foliage indicate the ripening and maturity of fruits giving feeding cues for avian species (Wheelwright and Janson, 1985). Similar results were obtained in the study conducted in Point Calimere Wildlife Sanctuary in South India, red followed by black coloured fruits were preferred by avian frugivores (Balasubramanian and Maheswaran, 2003). However, according to Kamruzzaman and Asmat (2008), dominant fruit color choices made by avian frugivores are red, green and yellow respectively. Among all fruit types, present study confirmed that maximum frugivores were attracted by syconia (fig) tree species. The ease with which figs were handled by diverse assemblages of avian frugivores ranging from small passerine birds like Indian white eye, red-vented bulbul to medium and large-bodied birds like yellow-footed green pigeon, barbets, Indian grey hornbill, parakeets, the crow contribute to the unique role that Ficus plays in frugivore survival in the urban landscape of Delhi. In the present study F. religiosa and F. benghalensis attracted maximum frugivore species. Soft flesh of figs can be penetrated by the bills of birds that are unable to swallow the whole fruit. These urban fig communities easily thrive in the urban areas like sides of buildings and stones and play a very important role in maintaining its avian frugivore diversity thereby providing us an opportunity to look