Title: Effect of medium-chain triglycerides supplements and walking on health-related quality of life in sedentary, healthy middle-aged, and older adults with low BMIs: a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel-group trial
Authors: Elena Ibañez, Joshua Wooten, Haruna Ishikawa
Section: 4 Discussion
for the improvement in SF-36 scores in this study, indicating alleviation of subjective fatigue. However, further research is needed to elucidate these mechanisms. Frontiers in Nutrition 09 frontiersin.org In this study we examined the effects of MCT dose and fatty acid composition on HRQOL, in combination with walking exercise. Our Low-dose octanoic acid supplement group, which had the lowest daily MCTs intake, and Decanoic acid supplement group, which had an octanoic acid intake similar to the Low-dose octanoic acid supplement group, had significant changes in several SF-36 items, compared to the control group. The High-dose octanoic acid supplement group had fewer items that showed significant differences from the control. One reason for this may have been differences in muscle mass and strength at baseline. Although no statistically significant differences were found between the groups, knee extension strength at week 0 was approximately 20 N and 70 N greater in the High-dose octanoic acid supplement group than in the Decanoic acid supplement and High-dose octanoic acid supplement groups, respectively (Table 3). In the Decanoic acid supplement and Low-dose octanoic acid supplement groups there were significant increases in both left and right knee extension strengths at the change value, compared to the control diet group. No significant change in right knee extension strength was observed in the High-dose octanoic acid supplement group. The high muscle mass at baseline may have had at least a small effect on this result. We analyzed the correlations between the changes in knee extension strength and SF-36 scores during the intervention. We found a weak to moderate positive correlation in scores related to subjective fatigue (such as MCS or VT) only in the Decanoic acid supplement and Low-dose octanoic acid supplement groups. This means there was an association between increased lower limb muscle strength and improvement in the mental subjective health subscale in the Decanoic acid supplement and Low-dose octanoic acid supplement groups. It is speculated that the increase in lower limb muscle strength associated with MCTs consumption may have had a small positive effect on subjective health and fatigue. It has been reported that SF-36 scores are more likely to decrease in individuals with reduced muscle strength (52), suggesting that physical function correlates with HRQOL. In conclusion, these results suggest that a certain daily intake (1.24 g) of octanoic acid as MCFA, which constitutes MCTs, in combination with walking exercise, might improve subjective health and reduce subjective fatigue by increasing muscle strength in middle-aged and older adults with low BMIs and no exercise habits. Octanoic acid