Title: UNSSOR: Unsupervised Neural Speech Separation by Leveraging Over-determined Training Mixtures
Authors: Zhong-Qiu Wang
Section: L Comparison with MixIT
This section compares the results of UNSSOR with MixIT [30], which also deals with unsupervised separation. We put this comparison only in appendix, considering that MixIT may not be an ideal baseline to UNSSOR. Notice that MixIT needs to be trained on synthetic mixtures of mixtures (MoM), which ideally would require the two mixtures used in creating each MoM to be recorded in the same room using the same device. Differently, UNSSOR is designed to be trained directly on existing mixtures. In this case, the two models would be trained on different training examples, and this would make the comparison difficult. In the main body of this paper, we hence only consider methods that can be trained (or performed) directly on existing mixtures (such as IVA, spatial clustering and iRAS) as baselines. To report the results of MixIT, we create a particular scenario (ideal for MixIT), where, for each existing SMS-WSJ mixture (y = x(1)+x(2)+n with n denoting noise), we randomly add two extra speakers in the same simulated room and use the same array placed at the same location so that we can have two 2-speaker mixtures (i.e., an existing SMS-WSJ mixture 1: y(1) = x(1)(1) + x(1)(2) + n(1) and a newly-simulated mixture 2: y(2) = x(2)(1) + x(2)(2) + n(2) where the superscript (1) denotes mixture 1 and (2) denotes mixture 2) to create an MoM for training MixIT for 4-speaker separation. Similarly to n(1), n(2) is sampled such that the SNR between x(2)(1) + x(2)(2) and n(2) is in the range of [20, 30] dB. The DNN architecture and training configurations for MixIT are the same as that in UNSSOR and PIT. The loss function is defined similarly to (5) on the real, imaginary and magnitude of the reconstructed mixtures weighted by the summation of mixture magnitudes. Similarly to our proposed technique, we can feed 1-, 3- or 6-channel mixtures to TF-GridNet-based MixIT. At run time, the trained MixIT model is used to separate the existing two-speaker mixtures in SMS-WSJ to four outputs, and the two outputs with the highest energy are selected for evaluation. This way, the evaluation scores can be pretty much directly compared with the ones obtained by UNSSOR. The results are shown in Table 11. They are not as good as the ones reported in Table 1, 2, 3 and 4. For unknown reasons, three-channel MixIT fits the loss well but fails at separating speakers.