Title: An external quality assessment feasibility study; cross laboratory comparison of haemagglutination inhibition assay and microneutralization assay performance for seasonal influenza serology testing: A FLUCOP study
Authors: Geert Leroux-Roels, Joanna Waldock, Carol D. Weiss, Wei Wang, Min Z. Levine, Stacie N. Jefferson, Sammy Ho, Katja Hoschler, Brandon Z. Londt, Elisa Masat, Louise Carolan, Stephany Sánchez-Ovando, Annette Fox, Shinji Watanabe, Miki Akimoto, Aya Sato, Noriko Kishida, Amelia Buys, Lorens Maake, Cardia Fourie, Catherine Caillet, Sandrine Raynaud, Richard J. Webby, Jennifer DeBeauchamp, Rebecca J. Cox, Sarah L. Lartey, Claudia M. Trombetta, Serena Marchi, Emanuele Montomoli, Iván Sanz-Muñoz, José Marı́a Eiros, Javier Sánchez-Martı́nez, Danny Duijsings, Othmar G. Engelhardt
Section: 4 Discussion
H3N2 strains. In this study %GCVs for B lineage viruses were more than double compared to %GCVs for influenza A viruses. Participants of this EQA reported that despite careful balancing of B lineage viruses during HAIs, run-run differences in HAI titres were high. It is possible that batch-batch variations in TRBCs have a greater impact on B viruses due to differences in receptor binding affinities between influenza A and B strains. B viruses are known to undergo egg adaptation, augmenting binding to avian sialic acid residues (7), however there is evidence that egg adaptation in B viruses contrasts to that seen in influenza A viruses, in that adaptation may involve multiple viral factors resulting in an increased ability to bind a2,3 receptors in eggs without losing the avidity for human receptors (8). Studies additionally indicate that the steric configuration of asialyl sugars of the receptor analogue may have a greater impact on binding avidity of B influenza viruses than the analogue being an a2,3 or a2,6 linked sialyl-glycan (8, 9). It is possible that subtle differences in asialyl sugar configuration between TRBC batches, and/or mutations during egg adaptation may have a greater impact on influenza B virus HA binding compared to influenza A viruses, although this remains to be seen. Regardless of the cause, this run-run variation was dramatically reduced when results were normalised with a standard, supporting the development of seasonal influenza standards. frontiersin.org The majority of published figures on inter-laboratory %GCV focus on influenza A viruses. The overall HAI %GCVs observed in this study for H1N1 (69%) and H3N2 (57%) are in line with or lower than previous studies (10–14). For HAI, the use of a consensus protocol alone (without standardized reagents) did not show a statistically significant difference for the 6 laboratories that tested FLUCOP and in-house protocols side by side. Although this study was not initially designed to compare FLUCOP and in-house methods, our analysis shows agreement with previous studies that demonstrate a stricker level of harmonization than protocol sharing is required to be effective in reducing inter-laboratory variability (2, 15). It was clear that the use of a pool of serum as a study standard was effective in reducing inter-laboratory variation, again consistent with published studies (2, 10, 13, 15). This adds to the growing body of evidence in favor of developing seasonal influenza serology standards. MN assays had intrinsically higher levels of variability within a run (reflected by 8.2% of coded duplicates failing in MN testing compared to 1.8% for HAI) but run to