Title: An external quality assessment feasibility study; cross laboratory comparison of haemagglutination inhibition assay and microneutralization assay performance for seasonal influenza serology testing: A FLUCOP study
Authors: Geert Leroux-Roels, Joanna Waldock, Carol D. Weiss, Wei Wang, Min Z. Levine, Stacie N. Jefferson, Sammy Ho, Katja Hoschler, Brandon Z. Londt, Elisa Masat, Louise Carolan, Stephany Sánchez-Ovando, Annette Fox, Shinji Watanabe, Miki Akimoto, Aya Sato, Noriko Kishida, Amelia Buys, Lorens Maake, Cardia Fourie, Catherine Caillet, Sandrine Raynaud, Richard J. Webby, Jennifer DeBeauchamp, Rebecca J. Cox, Sarah L. Lartey, Claudia M. Trombetta, Serena Marchi, Emanuele Montomoli, Iván Sanz-Muñoz, José Marı́a Eiros, Javier Sánchez-Martı́nez, Danny Duijsings, Othmar G. Engelhardt
Section: 4 Discussion
run variation was lower (4.8% of data are excluded from MN analysis due to high between-run variability compared to 11% of data for HAI). Much of the excluded Frontiers in Immunology 11 data for HAI comes from strain specific difficulties in balancing viruses between runs (particularly for B strains), skewing the data slightly. The considerably higher levels of inter-laboratory %GCV seen for MN assays (range of 133%-230%) likely reflect the higher diversity in protocols for MN assays, with multiple readout methods. Other studies agree that MN assays have higher inter-laboratory variation than HAI (10, 13, 14). In comparison to previous studies, the %GCV observed for absolute titres in this EQA is consistent, with values in the hundreds – in fact %GCVs for MN assays have previously been reported with higher values than seen here: H3N2%GCVs in the range of 256-359 (14), H1N1%GCVs in the range of 204-383 (13) and H5N1%GCVs in the range of 112-185 (10). In each of these studies, as seen here, the use of a serum standard significantly reduced inter-laboratory variation. Our data showed a reduction in %GCV of more than half, to less than 80% for each influenza A subtype and B lineage tested after normalization. This paper represents a feasibility study for carrying out a regular EQA for seasonal influenza serology, gauging the interest of laboratories for participating in such an activity. Some further considerations should be taken into account for such an EQA scheme in the future. As in-house stocks of antigen were tested in frontiersin.org this EQA study, it is possible that viruses will have acquired changes during propagation in eggs that will vary from testing lab to testing lab. We also allowed testing of wild type or reassortant antigens that are antigenically identical, though it is known that antigen type (WT, egg or cell passaged) can have an impact on HAI titre and inter-laboratory variation (manuscript in preparation). Perhaps sequencing of HA/NA genes of tested antigen would provide useful information on any variability in in-house antigen stocks. Frontiers in Immunology 12 Additionally, it would be interesting to carry out a comparison of in-house protocols used within such a study. HAI protocols have been shown within the FLUCOP consortium to vary at every stage of the assay (2), and although outside the scope of this feasibility study, protocol comparison may reveal important differences and present opportunities for harmonization of serology testing. We received positive feedback frommultiple participants of this feasibility study, demonstrating the positive impact such a scheme B C A FIGURE 6