Title: Effect of medium-chain triglycerides supplements and walking on health-related quality of life in sedentary, healthy middle-aged, and older adults with low BMIs: a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel-group trial
Authors: Elena Ibañez, Joshua Wooten, Haruna Ishikawa
Section: 4 Discussion
MCS, was also significantly increased. In a study investigating the effects of MCTs on mental health, the effects of medium-and long-chain triglycerides (MLCTs) on depression-like symptoms were reported in animal studies. One study suggested that the intake of MLCTs alleviated depression-like behavior and had an antidepressant-like effect compared to the intake of LCTs in mice subjected to the stress of continuous forced swimming (32). This trend is similar to the result of the present study, which shows a significant improvement in MH and MCS scores, which indicate a depressed mental state. It is speculated that consumption of MCTs may affect subjective health, especially the mental aspect of health. On the other hand, there was a significant change in PF, a subscale that significantly affects the physical aspect of health, although there was no change in PCS. The PF-related questions include an assessment of the walking and score has been reported to correlate with walking function (33). Therefore, in addition to the improvement in walking function resulting from the walking exercise as an intervention, lowering the psychological barrier to walking is thought to be one of the reasons for the increased PF score. Additionally, in the MCTs supplement groups, there was a significant increase in lower limb strength after the intervention, compared to the control group. It has been reported that continuous intake of MCTs increases metabolism-related enzymes in skeletal muscle (14, 34). Therefore, in our MCTs supplement groups, it is hypothesized that increased fatty acid oxidation capacity provided an ample energy supply for muscle activation in skeletal muscle. This increase in energy supply may have contributed to the improvement in muscle strength, consequently leading to the increase in PF scores. The SF-36 is an assessment that measures subjective physical and mental health, but it is also used to assess subjective fatigue. Subjective fatigue is a subjective feeling of awareness of the presence of physical and mental fatigue. VT, which represents the frequency of experiencing fatigue, has been used as a measure of physical fatigue in several clinical studies and its validity has been reported (35, 36). In addition, MH is an indicator of levels of anxiety and depression, which have been reported to correlate with fatigue (37, 38). Moreover, both MH and MCS have been reported to have a strong negative correlation with mental fatigue, a subscale of the MFI-20 used as a fatigue assessment method (MCS r = −0.563, MH -0.550, VT -0.574, SF -0.500) (39). Intake of coenzyme Q10, which has been reported to have fatigue-reducing effects, resulted