Title: Effect of medium-chain triglycerides supplements and walking on health-related quality of life in sedentary, healthy middle-aged, and older adults with low BMIs: a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel-group trial
Authors: Elena Ibañez, Joshua Wooten, Haruna Ishikawa
Section: 4 Discussion
in increased SF-36 VT, MH, and MCS scores, alongside a decreased salivary secretory immunoglobulin A secretion rate — a biological indicator of stress closely related to fatigue (40). In addition, VT has been used as a measure of physical fatigue, while MH and MCS have been used as indicators of mental fatigue (41). Although biomarkers were not evaluated in the present study, and the direct relationship to fatigue is not clear, significant increases in VT, MH, and MCS were observed in the MCTs supplement groups. It can be speculated that the combination of MCTs intake and moderate-intensity exercise may reduce subjective physical and mental fatigue in middle-aged and older adults. It is also considered that this reduction in fatigue might contribute to the improvements in SF-36 scores. Several mechanisms have been proposed for the perception of fatigue. It has been suggested that decreased adenosine triphosphate (ATP) production due to mitochondrial dysfunction, and cellular inflammation caused by oxidative stress, are related to fatigue (42, 43). Coenzyme Q10 and imidazole dipeptide are food ingredients that reduce mental and physical fatigue. These mechanisms of action have been reported to increase in mitochondrial ATP production and antioxidant effects (44), as well as anti-inflammatory effects via antioxidant effects (45). Excessive production of reactive oxygen radicals in muscle and nerve cells due to over-exertion causes oxidation and damage to cells and intracellular proteins and lipids. Whether it is exercise-induced fatigue or psychological work-related fatigue, cytokines produced by the immune system cells that detect this damage are sent to the cranial nervous and endocrine systems, leading to the perception of fatigue. It has been suggested that fatigue can be delayed if sufficient energy is not available to repair the cells at that time (46). Indeed, increased levels of oxidative stress and decreased efficiency of mitochondrial ATP production have been reported in patients with chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS) (47–49). Providing sufficient ATP by maintaining mitochondrial function and suppressing oxidative stress in vivo may be important in reducing subjective fatigue, as it leads to a reduction in fatigue. Studies have reported that MCTs or octanoic acid and decanoic acid each work to increase mitochondrial biosynthesis and activation of metabolism-related enzymes in tissues such as the cranial nervous system and skeletal muscle (14, 17, 24, 34, 50) and decrease oxidative stress (46). Moreover, β-hydroxybutyrate, a ketone converted from MCT, has been reported to increase protein expression of Mn-SOD and catalase (51). Therefore, we speculate that such an increase in ATP production and antioxidant capacity may have been the underlying mechanisms