Title: AudioGPT: Understanding and Generating Speech, Music, Sound, and Talking Head
Authors: Rongjie Huang, Mingze Li, Dongchao Yang, Jiatong Shi, Xuankai Chang, Zhenhui Ye, Yuning Wu, Zhiqing Hong, Jiawei Huang, Jinglin Liu, Yi Ren, Zhou Zhao, Shinji Watanabe
Section: 1 Introduction
the whole process of AudioGPT can be divided into four stages: • Modality Transformation. Using input/output interface for modality transformation between speech and text, bridging the gap between the spoken language LLMs and ChatGPT. • Task Analysis. Utilizing the dialogue engine and prompt manager to help ChatGPT understands the intention of a user to process audio information. • Model Assignment. Receiving the structured arguments for prosody, timbre, and language control, ChatGPT assigns the audio foundation models for understanding and generation. • Response Generation. Generating and returning a final response to users after the execution of audio foundation models. As a blossoming research topics (Wu et al., 2023; Shen et al., 2023; Huang et al., 2023b), there is an increasing demand for evaluating the performance of multi-modal LLMs in understanding human intention and organizing the cooperation of multiple foundation models. In this work, we outline the design principles and process of evaluating AudioGPT in terms of consistency, capability, and robustness. Experimental results demonstrate the capabilities of AudioGPT for processing complex audio information in multi-round dialogue, covering a series of AI tasks including generating and understanding speech, music, sound, and talking head. Key contributions of the paper include: • We propose AudioGPT, which equips ChatGPT with audio foundation models to handle complex audio tasks. As a general-purpose interface, ChatGPT is connected with a modality transformation interface to enable spoken dialogue. • We outline the design principles and process of evaluating multi-modal LLMs, and test AudioGPT in terms of consistency, capability, and robustness. • Demonstrations present the efficiency of AudioGPT in audio understanding and generation with multiple rounds of dialogue, which empowers humans to create rich and diverse audio content with unprecedented ease.