Title: Effect of medium-chain triglycerides supplements and walking on health-related quality of life in sedentary, healthy middle-aged, and older adults with low BMIs: a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel-group trial
Authors: Elena Ibañez, Joshua Wooten, Haruna Ishikawa
Section: 4 Discussion
has been shown to increase the amount of acylated ghrelin in the stomach (53), and to activate Akt/mTOR, which is involved in protein metabolism (15). In fact, it has been reported that continuous intake of octanoic acid-rich MCTs increased plasma albumin concentrations (11), skeletal muscle mass and strength (12, 13). Therefore, it has been speculated that the antioxidant effect of albumin (54) and the increase in muscle strength may have influenced the present results. On the other hand, the mechanism by which decanoic acid intake increases muscle strength is not fully understood. This study was also unable to clarify the effects of different amounts of decanoic acid intake on HRQOL and subjective fatigue. Further studies are required, to investigate the mechanism by which decanoic acid affects muscle strength in animals and humans, to confirm the detailed dose–response. In this case, to establish the effects of decanoic acid dose, muscle strength and muscle mass at the baseline should be considered when assigning subjects. Other factors that may affect this study include the fact that MCTs have been reported to be more likely to cause gastrointestinal discomfort than LCTs (55). However, the discomfort of ingesting MCTs was not considered to have a significant impact because the subjects’ adherence to supplement consumption during the study period was high (over 90%) and they did not report any discomfort. In this study, healthy men and women with no exercise habits undertook walking, a moderate-intensity exercise, twice a week. SF-36 was evaluated before and after the intervention. There are several limitations to the study. Firstly, whether walking or MCT had a greater effect on HRQOL is not clear. Secondly, the effect on middle-aged and older adults with a habit of daily exercise is unknown. Thirdly, the effect on subjective health at moderate or higher exercise intensities is unknown. Lastly, the effect on fatigue is unknown because biomarkers of fatigue were not measured.