Title: An external quality assessment feasibility study; cross laboratory comparison of haemagglutination inhibition assay and microneutralization assay performance for seasonal influenza serology testing: A FLUCOP study
Authors: Geert Leroux-Roels, Joanna Waldock, Carol D. Weiss, Wei Wang, Min Z. Levine, Stacie N. Jefferson, Sammy Ho, Katja Hoschler, Brandon Z. Londt, Elisa Masat, Louise Carolan, Stephany Sánchez-Ovando, Annette Fox, Shinji Watanabe, Miki Akimoto, Aya Sato, Noriko Kishida, Amelia Buys, Lorens Maake, Cardia Fourie, Catherine Caillet, Sandrine Raynaud, Richard J. Webby, Jennifer DeBeauchamp, Rebecca J. Cox, Sarah L. Lartey, Claudia M. Trombetta, Serena Marchi, Emanuele Montomoli, Iván Sanz-Muñoz, José Marı́a Eiros, Javier Sánchez-Martı́nez, Danny Duijsings, Othmar G. Engelhardt
Section: 4 Discussion
a limitation of the study, however, the dataset collected Frontiers in Immunology 09 is still valuable and serves to highlight where improvements in intraassay, intra-laboratory and inter-laboratory agreement can be made. We have not sought to implement limits to which we consider inter-laboratory performance to be acceptable or not. Instead, we have set arbitrary ranges that laboratories may consider (for example the indicative range of 0.8-1.25 for geometric mean ratios) and have put other measures of inter-laboratory variation into the context of existing literature for comparison (for example the %GCVs of samples across the testing laboratories). Intra-assay performance and intra-laboratory performance have been analyzed B A frontiersin.org and described as valid or failed based on standard and published criteria for serology assays (6). For these analyses, laboratories can see whether improvements are required to reduce intra-assay (within-run) and intra-laboratory (between-run) variability. In this study the most commonly observed incidence of variability for HAI testing appears to stem from the balancing of viruses from run to run, with several laboratories having much higher titres in one run compared to the next. Care should be taken to balance viruses to 4 HAU/25ul (or equivalent) at the start of each assay run and ensure adequate training is given to reduce differences in operators/technicians, although it is possible that other factors (such as batch to batch variation in turkey red blood cells and reading of HAI plates) may impact upon this. This study highlights that variability in HAI testing is significantly higher for influenza B strains compared to influenza A strains. B Victoria and particularly B Yamagata lineage viruses had high %GCV with both native and ether split antigen, however our data suggests that ether splitting the B Yamagata lineage virus reduces inter-laboratory variability. This is in line with a previous study demonstrating that ether split B Yamagata had lower %GCV than native antigen using in-house protocols (2), although interestingly this was not the case for a B Victoria antigen. Why high %GCVs are frequently observed for B Yamagata lineage viruses, and why the use of ether splitting appears more beneficial for B Yamagata compared to B Victoria lineage viruses is not clear, perhaps the quality and stability of ether split antigens may differ between B strains/lineages. Frontiers in Immunology 10 High levels of inter-laboratory variability have been observed for B lineage viruses in a previous FLUCOP study (2) with %GCVs of 89% for B Victoria and 117% for B Yamagata (in-house testing with inhouse antigen) compared to 50% for H1N1 and 70% for