Title: WEBARENA: A REALISTIC WEB ENVIRONMENT FOR BUILDING AUTONOMOUS AGENTS
Authors: Shuyan Zhou, Frank F. Xu, Hao Zhu, Xuhui Zhou, Robert Lo, Abishek Sridhar, Xianyi Cheng, Tianyue Ou, Yonatan Bisk, Daniel Fried, Uri Alon, Graham Neubig
Section: A.8 ADDITIONAL ERROR ANALYSIS
Observation Bias Realistic websites frequently present information on similar topics across various sections to ensure optimal user accessibility. However, a GPT-4 agent often demonstrates a tendency to latch onto the first related piece of information it encounters without sufficiently verifying its relevance or accuracy. For instance, the homepage of the E-Commerce CMS displays the best-selling items based on recent purchases, while historical best-seller data is typically accessed via a separate report. Presented with the task of “What is the top-1 best-selling product in 2022”, the GPT-4 agent defaults to leveraging the readily available information on the homepage, bypassing the necessary step of generating the report to obtain the accurate data. Failures in Observation Interpretation Interestingly, while GPT-4 is capable of summarizing the observations, it occasionally overlooks more granular information, such as the previously entered input. As in the right-hand example of Figure 11, [5172] StaticText indicates that the search term “DMV area” has already been entered. However, the agent disregards this detail and continuously issues the command type [2430] [DMV area] until it reaches the maximum step limit. Furthermore, the agent often neglects the previous action information that is provided alongside the observation. We hypothesize that these observed failures are related to the current pretraining and supervised fine-tuning on dialogues employed in GPT models Ouyang et al. (2022). These models are primarily trained to execute instructions given immediate observations (i.e.,, the dialogue history); thereby, they may exhibit a lack of explorations. Furthermore, in dialogue scenarios, subtle differences in NL expressions often have less impact on the overall conversation. As a result, models may tend to overlook minor variations in their observations.