Title: HomeRobot: Open-Vocabulary Mobile Manipulation
Authors: Sriram Yenamandra, Arun Ramachandran, Karmesh Yadav, Austin Wang, Mukul Khanna, Theophile Gervet, Tsung-Yen Yang, Vidhi Jain, Alexander William Clegg, John Turner, Zsolt Kira, Manolis Savva, Angel Chang, Devendra Singh Chaplot, Dhruv Batra, Roozbeh Mottaghi, Yonatan Bisk, Chris Paxton
Section: F.3.1 Navigation Skills
+ β1[d(t) ≤ γ]cos(θ(t)) with α = 2, β = 1 and γ = 0.8 in our case. The agent receives an additional positive reward of 2 once the episode succeeds and receives a negative reward of −0.5 for centering its camera towards the wrong object. F.3.3 PlaceObject Finally, the robot must move its arm in order to place the object on a free spot in the world. In this case, it starts at a viewpoint near a goal_receptacle. It must move up to the object and open its gripper in order to place the object on this surface. Input observations: Ground truth segmentation of goal receptacles, head depth sensor, joint sensor, sensor indicating if the agent is holding any object, CLIP [14] embedding for the name of the object being held. Initial configuration: Arm retracted, with gripper down and holding onto an object, head facing the base. The agent is spawned on a viewpoint with its base facing the object with an error of at most 15 degrees. Actions: Base translation and rotation waypoints, all arm joints (arm extension, arm lift, gripper yaw, pitch, and roll), a manipulation mode action that can be invoked only once in an episode to turn the agent’s head towards the arm and rotate the base left by 90 degrees. The agent is not allowed to move its base while in manipulation mode. Success condition: The episode succeeds if the agent releases the object and the object stays on the receptacle for 50 timesteps. Reward: The agent receives a positive sparse reward of 5 when it releases the object and the object comes in contact with a target receptacle. Additionally, we provide a positive reward of 1 for each step the object stays in contact with the target receptacle. It receives a negative reward of −1 if the agent releases the object but the object does not come in contact with the receptacle.