Title: MOSAIC: Learning Unified Multi-Sensory Object Property Representations for Robot Learning via Interactive Perception
Authors: Gyan Tatiya, Jonathan Francis, Ho-Hsiang Wu, Yonatan Bisk, Jivko Sinapov
Section: IV. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN
through a hidden layer and a ReLU activation function, and produces 20 logits for 20 categories. We train this classifier using the cross-entropy loss function for 50 epochs, using the Adam optimizer [35] with a learning rate of 10−4. The trained classifier is then used to recognize the category of test objects, and we compute accuracy as a performance metric, defined as A = correct predictionstotal predictions (%). We report the mean accuracy over 5 cross-validation folds, as mentioned earlier. 2) Fetch Object: In this task, the robot receives a natural language instruction to fetch an object, specifying its properties (e.g., “fetch an object that is cylindrical and short”). The robot is then presented with a group of objects, among which one matches the specified properties (i.e., target object), while the remaining distractor object(s) differ from the target object in at least one property. To illustrate, if the robot is instructed to fetch an object that is both cylindrical and short, the distractor objects might be cylindrical or short, but not both. The robot’s objective is to interact with these presented objects and correctly identify one with the requested properties. This task presents a challenge as the robot needs to detect the target object’s properties given in natural language and distinguish it from the distractors by interaction. We evaluate the robot’s performance on the fetch task across different levels of complexity. In this task, we refer to the given instruction as a “command” and the objects presented to the robot are carefully chosen from the previously mentioned test set, ensuring that they are entirely new to the robot. In difficulty Level 1, the command specifies the category name of the target object (e.g., “fetch a ball”); a distractor object is chosen from a different category. In Level 2, the command describes a specific property of the target object (e.g., “bring an object that is hard”). A distractor object is selected with a different property. In the Level 3 scenario, the command includes two distinct properties of the target object (e.g., “bring an object that is small and hard”). The distractor object, on the other hand, possesses different properties. For Level 4, like Level 3, the command includes two target object properties. However, this time, two distractor objects are introduced, each with differing properties. Level 5 represents a variation of Level 2, where the commands only contain a property from a specific category, as illustrated in Table I. For instance, in the “Material” category, the command might read, “get an object