The MSAII program aims to educate students in the innovative use of artificial intelligence to create practical solutions in a wide variety of application areas, emphasizing the integration of AI technologies like deep learning, natural language processing, robotics, and big data analytics into new applications.
To receive the M.S. degree, all students must take and successfully complete at least 195 units of coursework.
The Core Courses must be taken in the following sequence: 1. Artificial Intelligence and Future Markets (11-651), 2. AI Engineering (11-695), 3. LTI Practicum (11-935), 4. AI Innovation (11-654), 5. Capstone (11-699).
The RPP is a principle that expects members of the community to act reasonably, with minimal formal policies, emphasizing that students should not seek technical loopholes but consider what reasonable behavior in any situation would be.
The Knowledge Area Courses include 72 units covering subjects such as Coding Bootcamp, Machine Learning, Machine Learning with Large Datasets, Natural Language Processing, Deep Learning, and one additional 12-unit AI, ML, or NLP course of the student's choice (with approval from the Director).
The MSAII program enforces Carnegie Mellon's Academic Integrity policy strictly, including expectations around acknowledging sources and avoiding plagiarism. Violations can lead to serious consequences, including suspension or expulsion from the university.
Students must obtain an internship during the summer between the first and second years of the program, involving at least two months of full-time work related to computer software development, preferably AI-related. Students must register for three units in 11-935 (LTI Practicum) as part of this requirement.
The MCDS degree is a professional Master of Science degree offered by the Language Technologies Institute (LTI), a department in the School of Computer Science at Carnegie Mellon University. It offers advanced study in Computer Science and Machine Learning for students with basic analytic skills and a strong aptitude for mathematics, programming, and logical reasoning.
Carnegie Mellon University aims to have a transformative impact on society through continual innovation in education, research, creativity, and entrepreneurship.
The MCDS program offers a core curriculum and several concentrations. Students enroll in core courses their first semester and select courses to satisfy at least one concentration. Concentrations include Analytics, Systems, or Human-Centered Data Science, tailored to a student's coursework in a given concentration to follow a particular area of emphasis.
To complete the MCDS degree, students must finish 144 eligible units of study, including core and concentration courses, two seminar courses, and two capstone courses, with a minimum Quality Point Average (QPA) of 3.0.
The MCDS degree must be completed within five years from the time of matriculation. Students typically complete the program in three semesters; however, an additional fourth semester may be required for some.
Students must complete all requirements for the master’s degree within a maximum of seven years from original matriculation. Beyond this limit, resuming work towards a master’s degree requires new admission to a currently offered program.
There is no formal residency requirement for the MCDS program, but most courses are taught on campus without an option for distance education.
The Capstone Project in the MCDS program involves working on a research project or an industry-sponsored project, integrating the educational experience of the student. It may be completed as a team or individually.
The MCDS program adheres to Carnegie Mellon's policy on academic integrity, emphasizing honesty and prohibiting cheating or plagiarism. Violations are taken seriously, potentially resulting in dismissal from the program.
MCDS students must maintain a 3.0 overall average each semester to remain in good standing. All courses must receive a letter grade.
The Language Technologies Institute offers two Ph.D. programs and four Master's degrees: Ph.D. in Language and Information Technologies, Dual-Degree Ph.D. in Language and Information Technologies (CMU-PT Ph.D.), Masters in Language Technologies (MLT), Master of Science in Intelligent Information Systems (MIIS), Master of Computational Data Science (MCDS), and Master of Science in Artificial Intelligence and Innovation (MSAII).
The target duration of the LTI Ph.D. program is five years, although six years is also common.
To complete the Ph.D. in Language and Information Technologies degree, a student must pass at least 96 units of graduate-level courses, with additional specific requirements detailed in the program handbook.
LTI Ph.D. students are required to demonstrate proficiency in Writing, Presentation, Programming, and Teaching. These are satisfied through various means, including producing a peer-reviewed conference paper, oral presentation of a conference paper, demonstrating competence in programming, and completing successful Teaching Assistantships.
Full funding (tuition plus stipend) is guaranteed for the first year for all LTI Ph.D. students, normally continued for at least 5 years, subject to satisfactory progress and availability of funding. This includes full tuition and fees, a monthly Ph.D. stipend, and a dependency allowance for students with a child.
Students funded by research projects receive travel funding according to the policies set by the individual projects. Those without project funding may be provided with partial funding, with a larger amount available for travel to present a refereed conference paper.
Ph.D. students in good standing are allowed to do an external internship, planned in consultation with their advisor. With advisor approval, a student can intern up to four times during their Ph.D. degree. International students must have approval from the Office of International Education.
The University prohibits sex-based discrimination, sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating/domestic violence, and stalking. It also prohibits retaliation against individuals who bring forward such concerns or allegations in good faith. The University's Sexual Misconduct Policy outlines these prohibitions in detail.
Carnegie Mellon requires full-time, degree-seeking students to carry adequate medical insurance, offering a Student Health Insurance policy.
The MLT is a research-oriented Master of Science degree offered by the Language Technologies Institute, a graduate department in the School of Computer Science at Carnegie Mellon University. It's a 24-month program consisting of courses, directed research, and an optional Masters' Thesis. Research areas include speech processing, information retrieval, machine translation, natural language processing, machine learning, and computational biology.
The MLT program is expected to be completed in two calendar years (24 months), including two summers of full-time directed research.
To complete the MLT degree, a student must pass 120 or more course units of senior-to-graduate courses, including at least 72 units of 'LTI' courses, 24 units of 'SCS' courses, 11-711, 11-791 (or an equivalent), one 'Task Orientation Focus' class, a lab course, 11-792, or a project-oriented Masters’ thesis, plus two summers of full-time directed research.
MLT students must achieve a minimum grade of C (2.0) or higher in courses to satisfy degree requirements, and pass/fail grades are not permitted for courses and projects used to satisfy a degree requirement.
All MLT students must complete an oral presentation in their second year by the end of May, consisting of a 20-minute talk plus time for discussion, advertised to the LTI mailing lists at least one week before the presentation.
MLT students may engage in internships only if recommended by their advisors, given the 24-month program includes summers. International students must consult with the Office of International Education for eligibility before seeking an internship.
Transfers into the MLT program are not permitted during a student's first semester at CMU. Requests to transfer into the program after completing the first semester must be made in writing to the MLT/PhD Admissions Chair. Transfers out of the MLT program are subject to the rules of the desired degree program.
The MLT program adheres to Carnegie Mellon University's policy on academic integrity, emphasizing honesty and prohibiting cheating, plagiarism, and unauthorized assistance. Violations are subject to disciplinary actions according to university procedures.
Full funding (tuition plus stipend) is guaranteed for the first year for all MLT students, normally continued for the duration of the program, subject to satisfactory progress and availability of funding. This includes full tuition and fees, a monthly MLT stipend
The MIIS degree is a professional degree offered by the Language Technologies Institute (LTI), focusing on computer science areas related to processing and analysis of unstructured and semi-structured information like text, image, video, speech, and audio. It's designed for students aiming for leadership careers in industry and government.
The MIIS degree can be completed in two options: a 16-month track including three semesters and a summer internship, or a 21-month track encompassing four semesters and a summer internship.
MIIS students must complete qualifying courses in key areas and a set of free electives relevant to the program objectives. Specific requirements include courses from human language, machine learning, and language technology applications.
MIIS students must complete 66 practice-oriented course units, including directed study, an internship, and a capstone project to apply their skills in real-world settings.
Yes, MIIS students may transfer or receive exemptions for equivalent graduate courses previously completed at another institution, subject to approval by the MIIS Program Director.
MIIS students must complete a one-semester internship approved by the MIIS Program Director. Students with prior professional experience may petition for a waiver.
MIIS students must adhere to policies on double counting courses, duration of study, deferral, course loads, transfer credit, and transitioning between MIIS program tracks.
The LTI does not provide financial aid or support to MIIS students, who are encouraged to seek financial aid from other sources. MIIS students may apply for teaching assistant positions with permission.
MIIS students must adhere to Carnegie Mellon's policy on academic integrity, which prohibits cheating, plagiarism, and unauthorized assistance. Violations may result in disciplinary actions, including dismissal from the program.
MIIS students must achieve a minimum grade of B- in core courses to count towards degree requirements, maintain a minimum QPA of 3.0, and cannot use pass/fail grades for courses and projects required for the degree.
