What is the goal of the Master of Science in Artificial Intelligence and Innovation (MSAII) program at Carnegie Mellon University?
How many units of coursework are required to complete the MSAII degree?
What are the Core Courses and their sequence in the MSAII program?
What is the Reasonable Person Principle (RPP) in the context of the MSAII program?
What are the Knowledge Area Courses and unit requirements in the MSAII program?
How does the MSAII program address academic integrity and what are the consequences of violating it?
What is the internship requirement for the MSAII program?
What is the Master of Computational Data Science (MCDS) degree?
What is the vision of Carnegie Mellon University?
What are the core curriculum and concentrations in the MCDS program?
What are the MCDS program completion requirements?
What is the duration of the MCDS degree program?
What is the policy on Master’s Student Statute of Limitations?
What are the residency requirements for the MCDS program?
What is the MCDS Capstone Project?
What is the policy on Academic Integrity in the MCDS program?
What are the grading standards for the MCDS program?
What degrees does the Language Technologies Institute offer?
What is the target duration for completing the LTI Ph.D. program?
How many units of graduate-level courses must a Ph.D. student pass to complete the LTI Ph.D. degree?
What are the proficiency requirements for the LTI Ph.D. students?
What financial support is available for LTI Ph.D. students?
How can LTI Ph.D. students receive conference travel funding?
What are the conditions under which an LTI Ph.D. student can do an external internship?
What are the university's sexual misconduct policies for students?
What resources are available for LTI Ph.D. students seeking health insurance?
What is the Master of Language Technologies (MLT) degree?
How long is the MLT program expected to take?
What are the MLT degree course requirements?
What are the grade requirements for MLT students?
What is the research speaking requirement for MLT students?
What is the policy on external internships for MLT students?
What is the MLT student policy on transferring into or out of the MLT program?
How does the MLT program address academic integrity?
What financial support is available for MLT students?
What is the Master of Science in Intelligent Information Systems (MIIS) degree?
How long does it take to complete the MIIS degree?
What are the core requirements for the MIIS degree?
What practice requirements must MIIS students fulfill?
Can MIIS students transfer courses from other institutions?
How does the MIIS program handle internships?
What academic policies apply to MIIS students?
What financial support is available for MIIS students?
What is the MIIS policy on academic integrity?
What grading scale is used for MIIS students?
